Shares of the high-end auto maker Ferrari raced higher, putting the pedal to the metal with a 6% gain, after reporting third-quarter numbers that cruised by Wall Street’s estimates. (Please excuse the excessive car references.)

Monday’s stock-price action adds to the incredible 2019 enjoyed by Ferrari (ticker: RACE) investors. Shares are up almost 80% year to date, easily outpacing the gains of other car makers and the Dow Jones Industrial Average.

It goes to show that Ferrari isn’t really a car company. Its vehicles reside in the highest echelon of luxury goods.

For starter, there is the volume. The Italian car maker shipped fewer than 2,500 units in the quarter, while Tesla (TSLA)—not a huge company by volume standards—shipped almost 100,000 cars. General Motors (GM) sold about 1.9 million.

Then there is price. Ferrari sales were more than $1 billion in the third quarter. The average price realized for a vehicle was more than $400,000. Not bad.

The company also increased its forecasts for full-year sales and earnings. That is the big reason the stock is higher in Monday trading.

Management, however, feels good about 2020 as well. “I think it’s rather premature for us to address 2020 at this time,” said CEO Louis Camilleri deflecting a direct question on how next year is shaping up. Still, he said, Ferrari does expect a strong year, partly because of the mix of vehicles the company is offering.

Ferrari has introduced high-priced new models like the F8 Spider and the Ferrari 812 GTS.

The 812 GTS has a 12-liter engine generating more than 520 foot-pounds of torque. A nicely equipped BMW (BMW. Germany) 3-series sports car, for comparison, has about 300 foot-pounds of torque.

(Torque is what makes you feel as if you’re being pushed back in your seat when you hit the accelerator. You can’t really call it the gas pedal in the era of electric vehicles. Electric motors have different torque properties. Consider that a Tesla Model S can be purchased with torque outputs between about 400 and 800 foot-pounds. High-end sports cars are becoming rocket ships. )

Ferrari shares trade for about 38 times estimated 2020 earnings, a huge premium to other car stocks, which trade for an average of about 10 times. Of course, Ferrari isn’t only a car company—it is a brand.
