tocks are rising headed into the weekend.

Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index is up 0.5% in overseas trading. Europe’s FTSE 100 Index is doing even better, up 1%. All three major U.S. stock-index futures are up as well. The Dow Jones Industrial Average is up 78.52 points, or 0.3%, 27,844.81, while the S&P 500 is up 0.2% at 3110.75. The Nasdaq Composite is up 0.2% at 8526.77.

It’s been a big week for retail earnings, and more retailers stocks are moving Friday. First, the bad news.

Williams-Sonoma (ticker: WSM) stock is off 5.1% in premarket trading. Third-quarter earnings, reported Thursday evening, matched Wall Street consensus estimates, but the full-year guidance implied about $2.02 in per-share earnings during the important, holiday-laden fourth quarter. Analysts were predicting $2.06 a share.

Nordstrom (JWN) shares are faring better. The stock is up 7.8% in premarket trading after reporting numbers Thursday evening. The company earned 81 cents a share, far better than the 63 cents analysts predicted. Third-quarter numbers do appear to be enough to overcome slightly weaker full-year guidance. Nordstrom management tweaked full-year guidance down a couple of pennies.

Tech stock Pure Storage (PSTG) is plummeting in premarket trading, down by almost one-quarter. The computer memory company reported earnings that beat Wall Street expectations. But the market is forward-looking. The company guided fourth-quarter sales to about $490 million. Wall Street modeled for $498 million. That might not seem like a big deal, but the company trades for about 50 times next year’s estimated earnings.

Tesla stock (TSLA) is down as well, by about 3.4%, in premarket trading. The EV pioneer revealed its “cyberpunk” pickup truck Thursday night in Los Angeles. It’s a stainless steel, triangular-shaped vehicle which will start, pricing-wise, for less than $40,000. The out-of-the-box design might take a while for investors to digest, but the price is lower than Wall Street was expecting.

And Boeing (BA) stock might move on Friday. Shares are down week to date due, in part, to new orders received for its grounded 737 MAX jet at the Dubai air show. Gulf News, however, reported Wednesday that the Federal Aviation Administration believes Boeing’s January timeline for MAX reintroduction to service is aggressive. FAA Administrator Steve Dickson told reporters March might is more conservative.

It isn’t clear how Boeing stock would react to more delays. The recertification progress is slow. That’s bad. But the flip side of Dickson’s comments indicated the plane will fly again sooner than later.
