Tesla stock dropped Friday, by 6.1% to $333.04 after an release event for its pickup truck. The electric-vehicle pioneer’s futuristic design may be too much for some. It's a stainless steel, triangular, tank-like structure. But investors may be missing the point: $39,900. The base-level truck price is under $40,000. That’s a big achievement and shows that Tesla—and the car industry—is making progress on battery costs.

Los Angeles, CA

Tesla’s Cybertruck Launch Event
Electric vehicles, or EVs, are more expensive than cars powered by internal combustion engines. The reason is the battery pack. Batteries required to achieve an acceptable travel range plus the electric motors cost more than an internal combustion engine and gas tank.

Of course, refueling an EV by plugging it in is cheaper than refueling with gasoline. Large-scale electricity generation overall is more efficient than generating power with a small engine. The payback period for an EV buyer, however, remains several years.

The promise of EVs—along with being better for the environment—is they will eventually be cheaper over their life cycle as battery costs fall.

EVs emit less CO2 than conventional cars. Refueling “efficiency” is again part of the story, but electricity generation is moving toward renewable options such as wind- and solar-based generation, and away from carbon-intensive fuels such as coal.

Pricing under $40,000 is a strong statement from Tesla (ticker: TSLA) that battery costs are falling. Tesla partners with Panasonic (6752.Japan) in producing batteries in a jointly owned “Gigafactory,” but the entire industry is making headway.

General Motors (GM) CEO Mary Barra said earlier in 2019 that EV models aren’t profitable yet, but she believes GM-produced electric cars will make money by the middle of next decade.

Apples-to-apples data on battery costs is difficult to obtain. “I mean, we think at the cell level, probably, we can do better than $100 per kilowatt-hour maybe later this year,” said Tesla CEO Elon Musk in June. “Depending upon...commodity prices.”

Even that number is cryptic, as a 60 kilowatt-hour batter pack can get 250 miles in range—depending on other factors such as car weight and even the weather. That means cells cost $6,000. Then there are motor and power-pack integration costs. That’s the essence of why EV powertrains are expensive.

While the math is difficult, the conclusion isn’t: Making money on an EV priced for $40,000 is good—very good.

EV battery cells actually look a lot like batteries bought in the store. They have the capacity to store more energy, and they are more robust. But an EV battery pack is essentially hundreds of cylindrical batteries linked together.

Of course, Tesla stock is down just because its been up. Shares have risen about 50% over the past three months, pushed higher by better-than-expected third-quarter numbers. Still, Friday’s declines appear to be related to the truck’s design. The body is stainless steel, which invokes the defunct DeLorean. Also, a demonstration of the truck’s armor glass went awry.

“While some may consider the Cybertruck too futuristic of a design,” wrote Baird analyst Ben Kallo in a Friday research report, “we do think strong functionality will eventually win over Tesla loyalists and enable the company to take share from traditional auto OEMs.” He also was impressed with the relatively low price point. Kallo rates Tesla stock at the equivalent to Buy and has a $355 price target.

(OEM is short for original equipment manufacturer, and refers to truck and car makers such as Ford Motor (F) and GM.)

Editor's Choice
The cybertruck’s specifications appear solid. The pickup truck will go 0 to 60 miles per hour in under three seconds in higher-priced configurations. Electric motors have more torque at zero r.p.m.—one reason EVs are so fast out of the gate. Towing and hauling capacity comparable favorably to traditional pickups.

Boat owners, however, will still have to ask the question if their cybertruck can put their craft into water. Tesla didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment, but the limited warranty for existing Tesla models doesn’t cover deep water.

Even if the design proves to be niche, falling battery costs are the much bigger deal for the company—and all auto makers—in the long-run.

For the year, Tesla stock is now down about 1%, trailing comparable gains of the Dow Jones Industrial Average and the S&P 500 index.

