Tesla CEO Elon Musk certainly knows how to get a conversation started. In a sense, he’s a master of free advertising.

Perusing social media feeds for even a few moments is enough to learn many people are talking about the Tesla (ticker: TSLA) Cybertruck. There are a range of opinions on both specifications and aesthetics.

A poll on Car and Driver, for instance, shows 70% of readers clicking on “Whoa! What the heck am I looking at?” and 30% clicking “Wow. Those are pretty impressive [specifications].”

“They have made the Tesla Aztek,” read one online post. The Pontiac Aztek is widely regarded as one of the worst car designs of all time. Still, the truck has supporters. “This is the sharpest tool in the shed,” reads another, positive post.

Even if the design is being panned, Musk still might have the last laugh. Orders for the truck are pouring in.

Customers are signing up in droves to reserve their place in line. Musk tweeted out Saturday that almost 150,000 orders for the truck have been received since the launch event in Los Angeles on Thursday evening. He updated the number in another tweet on Sunday which appears to indicate orders are up to 200,000 units. Wall Street analysts say the number exceeds 200,000 Monday.

“The order number is much higher than expected with much of the [Street] only anticipating 50,000 sales per year,” Baird analyst Ben Kallo tells Barron’s. “The deposit of $100 is lower than previous deposit requirements but I think the quick ramp to 200,000 deposits helps counter the argument no one will buy the truck.”


As Kallo points out, the Cybertruck can be reserved for $100, which is fully refundable. That’s less money than what was required to hold a place in line for prior Tesla models.

“With $100 preorder price, we view [orders] as a noise statistic although the Tesla loyalists will run with it,” Wedbush analyst Dan Ives tells Barron’s. “Sounds great on paper, reality will be a fraction of those convert by 2022 in our opinion.” He remains skeptical of the Cybertruck addressable market given the “stealth bomber look.”

Kallo rates shares the equivalent of Buy and has a $355 price target for the stock. Ives rates shares the equivalent of Hold and has a $270 price target for the stock.

The truck will be available in three configurations: a single motor, rear-wheel drive model, dual motor all-wheel drive, and tri-motor all-wheel drive. The three models rise in price starting at about $40,000, $50,000 and $60,000, respectively. Self-drive is an additional $7,000 option available on any of the configurations. Musk added in his twitter communications 42% of orders were for the dual motor, 41% were for the tri-motor and 17% were for the single motor. People are opting for the most expensive one.

Telsa has always taken preorders and customer deposits. It’s a convenient source of money to fund operations. The company had $665 million of customer deposits on the books as of the latest quarterly filing, down from $793 million at the beginning of the year. Customer deposits—which also include things such as vehicle maintenance plans—fall as the new Model 3 Sedans gets delivered.

It isn’t clear what Tesla has achieved on reservation to final sale conversion on its prior models. The company didn’t return a request for comment on Sunday asking about reservation details.

Tesla stock is up about 3% in trading Monday morning, clawing back some of Friday’s losses. Shares closed down $21.79, or 6.1%, to $333.04, far worse than U.S. equity indexes such as the Dow Jones Industrial Average and the S&P 500. Truck-design disappointment was a factor. But the stock has been on quite a run, up about 57% over the past three months, far better than those same indexes. Better-than-expected third-quarter numbers catalyzed the recent stock rally.


