China’s auto market could soon “bottom out,” an analyst predicted as stock in a beleaguered maker of electric vehicles jumped after the company reported its third-quarter delivery numbers.

Historical trends suggest that a run of quarters in which Chinese auto sales fell year over year could end this year, according to Citi Research analyst Jeff Chung, He cited an analysis of past sales cycles in the U.S. auto market in a Tuesday note.

“China is not in any critical recession or financial crisis,” Chung wrote. ”Auto consumption accounts for a big portion of China’s gross domestic product spending and the government will likely provide policy support in event of [a] prolonged downcycle...and the downcycle in China has been nearly 18 months. ... We believe the sector should bottom out soon.”

“Typical” U.S. down cycles have lasted an average of 18 months, according to Chung.

A recovering Chinese auto market could boost shares of Nio (ticker: NIO), a maker of electric cars, which had fallen roughly 75% this year through Monday’s close. Tesla (TSLA), Nio’s U.S. counterpart, would also stand to benefit because the company already sells in China and is building a local factory.
Nio on Tuesday reported third-quarter deliveries of 4,799, up 35% from the second quarter. The company said late last month investors should expect between 4,200 and 4,400 deliveries for the quarter.

“In addition to the solid sequential improvement in our delivery numbers, we have seen accelerated growth of our order backlog since September supported by a more expansive sales network,” CEO William Li said in a statement. “Facing unfavorable economic conditions and auto industry trends, we drive forward by committing to outstanding products and excellent services.”

Nio’s stock has fallen as the company has reported wide losses and diminishing margins. The company has sought to restore confidence by bringing in more cash and announcing restructuring efforts. The stock was up 8.1% to $1.67 on Tuesday morning, while Tesla was down 0.4% to $236.80.
