Korea Investment Corp. cut its holdings in GE stock (ticker: GE) in half in the third quarter, ending September with 3.9 million shares. Unfortunately, that means that the fund cut exposure to GE stock’s 29.2% rally so far in the fourth quarter through Friday’s close; that gain is far better than the 4.5% rise in the S&P 500, which has looked unstoppable as of late.

GE stock has benefitted from the stability that CEO Larry Culp has brought, and we noted earlier this month that sentiment has become more positive in the name. GE Bears still abound, however.

Korea Investment disclosed the GE stock trade in a form it filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. It also noted sales of General Motors (GM) and Netflix (NFLX) stock, and purchases of Mastercard (MA) stock in the third quarter.

The fund didn’t respond to a request for comment on the trades.

Korea Investment sold 813,400 GM shares in the third quarter, a reversal from the second quarter that saw it bulk up on the auto giant’s stock. The sale has proven to be a savvy move as GM stock has slumped 5.7% so far in the fourth quarter. The fund owned 3.5 million GM shares.

GM stock weathered a strike well, but recent weakness may be from investor fear over competition from a truck launch from Tesla (TSLA), and concerns over unfavorable accounting changes.

The fund also slashed a third of its investment in Netflix stock, ending the third quarter with 257,211 shares of the streaming-video giant. Korea Investment was less exposed to Netflix stock’s 16.0% rally so far in the fourth quarter.

Editor's Choice
Netflix stock’s surge may be surprising, considering that Walt Disney’s (DIS) rival streaming service Disney+ launched with big subscriber numbers. Meanwhile, another new Netflix rival, Apple’s (AAPL) Apple TV+, is garnering lukewarm-to-poor assessments from viewers.

Korea Investment bought 334,800 Mastercard shares in the third quarter, ending the period with 1.07 million shares of the card giant. With a gain of 4.1%, Mastercard stock is just behind the S&P 500 so far in the fourth quarter; for the year to date, shares have rocketed 49.8%, more than twice the 24.1% rise in the index.

Mastercard has reported strong earnings, and last month pulled out from participating in Facebook’s (FB) proposed digital currency Iibra.
