Electric-vehicle pioneer Tesla hosted a special event in Los Angeles late Thursday to reveal a new addition to its model lineup: the “cyberpunk” pickup truck.

It’s very triangular. And surprisingly affordable.

The lead-up to the event generated a lot of buzz. Pickup trucks, after all, represent a divergence from Tesla’s (ticker: TSLA) core luxury-car market. And Americans love trucks. There are more pickups sold each year than luxury cars.


The party lived up to the hype. The lights and music were straight out of Hollywood, and a virtual “cybergirl” announced the truck was the ultimate evolution of form and function. Everyone onstage seemed to be clad in black leather.

But there was business to conduct. “To solve sustainable energy, we have to have a pickup truck,” said Tesla CEO Elon Musk, noting pickups are the most popular vehicles in America.

Pictures are available on the company’s truck website. Describing the truck is a little difficult. The skin is stainless steel. Think DeLorean. It’s very triangular—an obtuse triangle—with the peak of the cab triangle about where the driver’s head would be.


The truck is designed to go from 0 to 60 miles an hour in 2.9 seconds. Payload is listed at up to 3,500 pounds, and the towing capacity is 14,000 pounds. The acceleration and towing capability stand in—to some extent—for the horsepower and torque ratings truck buyers are more familiar with. (Electric motors are a little different than internal combustion engines.)


The base price is under $40,000. That qualifies as the biggest surprise. Wall Street thought $50,000 was more likely.

A nicely equipped traditional full-size pickup, by contrast, weighs two tons, carries another ton, and tows about 15,000 pounds. (An engine for that truck generates about 400 horsepower and 400 foot-pounds of torque.) A full-size pickup truck box can hold 50 to 80 cubic feet, depending on length and configuration.

The Tesla pickup box is 6.5 feet—a standard size.

The launch coincided with another big event: Car people are in L.A. this week for that city’s annual auto show. Ford Motor (F) and General Motors (GM)—Tesla’s new pickup truck competitors—addressed the all-electric pickup truck market in presentations Thursday.

Musk demonstrated his truck winning a tug of war with a Ford F-150. Neither traditional auto maker is shying away from the competition.

“If there’s a little bit more enthusiasm in the battery electric pickup space, I’m delighted. We’ve got an F-150 hybrid coming shortly. We got a full battery electric coming shortly,” said Ted Cannis, Ford’s global director of electrification. “We build trucks for real people that really work, and they actually need their trucks to be working every single day all the time. So we think this couldn’t get any better.”

GM CEO Mary Barra spoke at the conference. She sounds confident about her company’s truck strategy too. “General Motors understands truck buyers,” said Barra. GM’s first all-electric truck will be on sale in fall 2021.

Tesla stock fell 6.1% to end at $333.04 on Friday.

Its shares have had an amazing run since the company reported better-than-expected third-quarter earnings on Oct. 23. The stock, which closed Thursday up 0.7%, at $354.83, is up more than 60% over the past three months. The S&P 500, by comparison, is up about 7% over the same span.

