The world got its first glimpse of Tesla’s electric pickup truck Thursday night, and Wall Street analysts had some pointed things to say about the Cybertruck’s less-than-earth-shattering debut.

And be it the truck’s far-out, angular design or the bulletproof glass demonstration that wasn’t all it was cracked up to be, Tesla stock (ticker: TSLA) fell 6.1% to end at $333.04 on Friday. The S&P 500 rose 0.2%.

RBC Capital Markets analyst Joseph Spak said he sees a limited market for the truck, which offers three versions starting at $39,900 and is slated for a late-2021 release.

“While the Cybertruck seems plenty capable, we don’t believe that Tesla is going after the heart of the market and the work/utility crowd here,” he wrote.

He argues the vehicle will initially appeal to the “influencer crowd” like celebrities and the “look at me” crowd. “Call the Cybertruck a Hummer for the green millennial generation, really the ultimate virtue and vice signaling machine,” he wrote.

Deutsche Bank ’s Emmanuel Rosner wrote that there are still important unanswered questions that need to be answered before one can assess the Cybertruck’s potential. Those include the appeal of its exterior design, real battery ranges with a payload, and whether commercial buyers will trust Tesla’s build quality.

“From an investor point of view, Tesla expanding its addressable market to include a large new segment ought to be positive news, but only if it could be done profitably,” he wrote. “In addition to our questions around buyer interest, we wonder what the margin profile of Cybertruck could be, with a starting price only marginally higher than Model Y, but considerably larger vehicle footprint and higher capabilities.”

Wedbush’s Daniel Ives said the truck looks more like a stealth bomber than a pickup truck.

“The Tesla pickup has a steel framework that is impressive and looks more out of a Blade Runner sci-fi movie which will be a hit with the company’s fanatic EV installed base globally as Musk & Co. are clearly thinking way out of the box on this model design,” he wrote.

He believes the truck could help the company expand its market opportunity outside its core customer base over time, though he adds that gaining market share from Ford Motor (F) and General Motors (GM) will be a difficult task.

Bernstein’s Toni Sacconaghi wrote that the truck “looks weird...like, really weird,” which he sees as a shame given its on-paper specs and competitive price point.

“But looks do matter, and we think Cybertruck is likely to be a niche offering—with sales of perhaps 50K units a year or less,” he wrote. He also likened it to the Hummer, which sold between 30,000 and 80,000 units annually during its lifetime.
