	Tesla unveiled its pickup truck Thursday in Los Angeles. See what it look like here.

Electric-vehicle pioneer Tesla is forging ahead into new markets. Elon Musk’s company is set to debut its first pickup truck Thursday evening in Los Angeles. Trucks are a little different than the company’s luxury car offerings, creating a lot of mystery around the launch.

It’s must-see TV for investors and analysts. Here’s what Wall Street is saying as Tesla’s (TSLA) unveiling approaches.

Deutsche Bank weighed in on Monday. “We expect focus to be on how well the actual design resonates with pickup buyers,” wrote analyst Emmanuel Rosner in a research report. He sounds skeptical that truck buyers will like a futuristic truck. Musk has called the truck “cyberpunk” and mentioned the classic sci-fi fiilm “Blade Runner” when referring to design.

Rosner rates Tesla stock at the equivalent of Hold. Traditional car analysts such as Rosner tend to be more skeptical of Tesla stock. Technology analysts, on the other hand, who cover the auto maker along with other renewable-energy or tech companies, seem more willing to express upbeat sentiments on Tesla

“Starting price could be less than $50,000, high-end versions could feature 400 to 500 miles of range and 0 to 60 miles an hour acceleration less than 3.4 seconds,” adds Rosner. Price and performance will be important metrics for stakeholders to look out for Thursday.

Still, Rosner’s comments are speculation at this point. “Tesla has done a fantastic job keeping the specs of the Cybertruck under wraps,” wrote Wedbush analyst Dan Ives in a Wednesday research report. “Musk has hinted...that his Cybertruck will be more affordable than its main competitor Rivian, whose R1T electric pickup starts at a price of $69,000.” Rivian is part owned by Ford Motor (F) and plans to launch its truck in 2020.

Tesla Inc.
Source: FactSet
Dec. ’18
Feb. ’19
April
June
Aug.
Oct.
150
200
250
300
350
$400
“In a nutshell, we believe this next-generation pickup truck could help Tesla expand its market opportunity outside its core customer base,” Ives added. He rates Tesla stock at the equivalent of Hold with a $270 price target. Ives covers technology stocks including ride-hailing startup Lyft (LYFT) and e-commerce and Internet-services giant Amazon.com (AMZN).

“It’s important to keep in mind that the main event for Tesla remains Models 3 and Y,” wrote Credit Suisse analyst Dan Levy in a Wednesday research report when pondering the truck. The Model 3 is Tesla’s latest, lower-priced sedan. And the Y is the smaller SUV, fitting in below the company’s Model X in size and price.

Those two vehicles are more important to the long-term success of Tesla than the pickup, according to Levy. What’s more, he has doubts the core U.S. pickup truck buyer will be swayed by Tesla’s new offering. “Large pickup segment loyalty is greater than 70%, 30 [percentage points] higher than any other [light vehicle] segment,” adds Levy. Truck buyers stick with what they know.

31: Our Tesla Obsession
Host Alex Eule is joined by Barron's David Marino-Nachison to discuss why we love to read-and write-about Tesla. The Readback is a weekly, financial podcast from Barron's. Published on May 5, 2019. Produced by Mette Lützhøft.


Levy rates Tesla stock at the equivalent of Sell and has a $200 price target for shares. Levy is a traditional automotive analyst.

The pickup may be a niche product, but the addressable market is large. “The global market for pickup trucks [priced higher than] $30,000 is about 2.5 to 3 million units,” wrote Bernstein analyst Toni Sacconaghi. “[That] is about 65% of the [global] addressable market for Model Y or Model 3.” He rates Tesla shares at the equivalent of Hold and has a $325 price target for the stock.

Sacconaghi is a tech analyst covering other companies such as Apple (AAPL).

Editor's Choice
Baird analyst Ben Kallo didn’t refer to the truck directly in a recent research report. But he wrote new model introductions qualify as “catalysts” that can keep the stock moving higher. Kallo, a renewable-technology analyst, rates Tesla stock at the equivalent of Buy and has a $355 price target. His price target is actually a little below where shares are trading. But when his note was penned Tesla shares were less than $300.

It’s been tough to keep up with Tesla stock lately. Shares have been on a tear since reporting better-than-expected third-quarter earnings. Tesla stock is up about 42% over the past month, far better than the comparable 3.8% gain of the S&P 500 over the same span.

“Historically, Tesla’s stock has generally outperformed in the week preceding new car announcements, but its stock reaction thereafter has been mixed,” wrote Sacconaghi. Unfortunately for investors, that means what happens to Tesla stock on Friday is anybody’s guess.
