Here’s an updated analysis and Revolution Ratings for some stocks I’ve highlighted in the past few years.

The ratings range from one to 10, with one being “Get out of this position now!” and 10 being “Sell the farm, I’ve found a perfect investment.” The positions that are bolded are those that I consider to be “core” holdings and am unlikely to ever sell out of entirely.

I’ll highlight eight stocks today and another eight stocks in a second newsletter this week.

Tesla (8) — Tesla US:TSLA  is one of the most volatile day-to-day, week-to-week stocks I’ve owned in a long time. That volatility can be painful when the company sets expectations too high (as it did through leaked email from Elon Musk last week indicating the company could almost get to 100,000 deliveries in the third quarter, and then delivering 97,000). It can be wonderful when the expectations get too low or the stock too oversold. TSLA remains the most heavily shorted mega-cap stock in the markets and the battleground here is fierce. The quality of the product, the Revolutionary way the car is a computer on wheels that keeps updating itself and improving after you buy it, is something the shorts just can’t get their heads around. I happen to think that it’s more likely that Ford US:F, GM US:GM  and Volkswagen XE:VOW  may go bankrupt in the next five years. In the prior Latest Positions, I wrote: “I’d look to nibble on more TSLA at $210-ish or so.” With all that volatility, we’ve had some chances to buy the stock at around that level and maybe we’ll get the chance again. There is still risk that this stock goes much lower in the next year if they don’t sell enough cars or something goes wrong with the Gigafactory 3 or. ... I feel safe in predicting only that the stock won’t be at $231 two years from now.

Uber (8) — Uber US:UBER  raised so many billions of dollars from SoftBank and others in the private market when it was valued near $100 billion, that it’s still un-bloating itself. For example, why did the company ever invest in trying to develop its own autonomous vehicle technology instead of just waiting for the technology to develop? Why are there nearly 25,000 people working at Uber? What are they all doing? The good news is that Uber is indeed a Revolutionary company that’s got high barriers to entry to create a global car fleet that works from the same app — there’s only Lyft US:LYFT  and maybe one of the Chinese competitors. It’s also good that the company is being held accountable by the public markets. There’s a lot of potential but Uber is still burning cash and far from “safe.” I’m holding the UBER position I’ve got steady for now, but might buy more if it falls below $25 in a panic sell-off.

Facebook (7) — Facebook US:FB  and Mark Zuckerberg have done an amazing job of weathering PR storms. They’ve made so many mistakes with people’s privacy over the years, and they’ve spent so much money on privacy initiatives that it’s possible they’ve got things locked down. Then again, I doubt it. Anyway, there’s also the Facebook crypto (it’s not a crypto) currency, Libra, which has run into problems of its own. PayPal US:PYPL  just pulled out of the Libra project entirely and rumors in the WSJ have it that Visa US:V  and Mastercard US:MA  will be next to bail. Facebook might be higher right now if Libra had any momentum. Instead it looks like Libra will be a shell of what it could have been if/when it does launch. Meanwhile, cash flow and fundamentals remain pretty terrific for Instagram and WhatsApp and Ol’ Grandma Facebook itself. I don’t use Facebook anymore, I’ve never really used Instagram or Whatsapp and the only social networking I create/consume is on Twitter. But more than 90% of the developed world outside of China uses some sort of Facebook product just about every month. Heck, now that I think about it, I do still have a Facebook account that’s up. I’d be a buyer of Facebook in the low $160s.

Twitter (8) — Twitter US:TWTR  (and Snap) are the anti-Facebook. The utility and value that you get out of tweets, links, pics, video and commentary in your Twitter feed is somehow more valuable because of the brevity of the tweets. It’s the 21st century internet-ification of the Blaise Pascal saying: “I would have written a shorter letter, but I did not have the time.” The stock has broken out this year and tried to spike above $45 before it exhausted itself, as I’d expected it might in the prior Latest Positions update. Same upshot as last time too: I’d buy more TWTR below $40.

Snap (7) — Eight years in, Facebook is still trying to be as cool as Snap US:SNAP. Threads is the latest wannabe-Snap-app from Facebook, this one an Instagram camera-first messaging app target at a “smaller circle of friends” than Instagram’s other visual-sharing efforts. Threads is a stand-alone app aimed at privacy and speed. Snap’s another riskier stock among our long positions, but it has a clear path to much higher earnings and probably higher stock price in coming years if the company can keep growing and somehow become a breakout hit outside of the countries it’s already broken out in.

Verizon (6) — Verizon US:VZ  is the anti-Tesla, barely budging and hanging out at these levels for decades now. It might be another three to five years before 5G has been deployed widely enough, long enough for all of the new services/revenue models to be developed and kicking in to matter. I also wonder if Starlink internet services from SpaceX and/or other new technologies might hurt the traditional wireless companies. And with that, I’m going to let go of Verizon here. I will certainly have Verizon on my radar and will be ready and willing to buy it back if the stock yields more than 5% again or if it turns out Verizon does start to dominate 5G when it gets here.

T-Mobile US (7) — T-Mobile US:TMUS  has the same longer-term risks as Verizon, but I’m willing to give this stock a little room for now. I’ll keep holding TMUS steady and might add more near $70.

Qualcomm (8) — There’s not much to say about Qualcomm US:QCOM  month-to-month. The stock is cheap at maybe 15 times next year’s likely earnings of $5 and very cheap on what could be a huge growth cycle in 5G ahead. A 3% dividend doesn’t hurt. There’s still constant litigation risk with this name, but I’d load up on this stock if it got hit on litigation headlines.
