On Thursday night, around when Tesla was unveiling its militaristic Cybertruck in Los Angeles, a two-ton masseur in New York was attending to my haunches. You see, the seats in Ford’s F-150 pickup come with circulation-aiding “active motion” in top-trim models, like the one a friend was giving me a lift in. Those go for close to $70,000, more than double the base-model price, and are key earners for Ford.

My thanks to the engineers in Dearborn, Mich., for going above and beyond with my below and behind. But my relaxation gave way to re-clenching as I thought about the risks to automotive stocks ahead of a parade of electric-vehicle entrants.

That planned truck from Tesla (ticker: TSLA) has an angular, severe look suggesting that optional chain-gun turrets wouldn’t be out of place. It will start near $40,000, with a top-end model approaching $70,000. The pricier version promises to beat Ford’s current trucks on towing capacity and trounce them on acceleration. Then again, it also promises “armor glass,” but an onstage attempt to smash a window succeeded quite nicely. Twice. Tesla says it will start production in late 2021, and that high-end models will start coming off the line in late 2022.

“Investors will question if this is a mass-market pickup going after Ford and GM with 3 million pickup trucks sold annually in the U.S., or a more niche ‘wow factor’ model that will be more limited in demand/production scale and scope,” wrote Wedbush Securities analyst Daniel Ives in a note.

Editor's Choice
Even so, General Motors (GM) on Thursday said it would have an all-electric pickup on sale by fall 2021. Ford Motor (F) previously announced an electric F-150, which could launch around the same time. And a Detroit-area start-up called Rivian, whose investors include Amazon.com (AMZN) and Ford, plans to begin production on an electric pickup next year. These vehicles won’t just compete against one another. They’ll also take on gasoline-powered rivals for existing market share. Pickups have lately accounted for 17% of U.S. light-vehicle volume, 22% of revenue, and perhaps 70% of profits.

Launch congestion is looming in crossover vehicles, too. Earlier this past week, Ford announced that it will affix its storied Mustang sports-car brand to an all-electric crossover. The 2021 Mustang Mach-E is priced close to the Tesla Model Y, a compact utility vehicle slated for production next year. Morgan Stanley analyst Adam Jonas wrote that General Motors should do something similar with its Corvette brand. Either way, Ford and Tesla will face electric crossover competition from the e-tron from Audi, owned by Volkswagen (VLKAF); the iNEXT from BMW (BMW.Germany); and the EQC SUV from the Mercedes-Benz unit of Daimler (DMLRY). Among more than 100 electric vehicles hitting showrooms over the next few years, some 45% will be crossovers, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch. And almost half of them will target luxury buyers. Again, electric models will also compete with gasoline ones.

Have you heard what’s going on in sedans? No, because no one seems to care about them anymore. And although I’m an outspoken advocate for minivans, I can’t help but notice that sales there, much like my vehicle’s rear doors, are sliding.

What should stock investors do? Maybe steer clear of car makers altogether. They’re like media companies and streaming. It’s a safe bet that streaming will take share from traditional television over time. And high-quality companies like Walt Disney (DIS) look likely to prosper over the long run. But profits for streaming come with scale, and that takes time to build. Over the next year or two, streaming could be a financial drain on the entire group.

In cars, it is easy to imagine that electric vehicles will win out over gas-powered ones, eventually, for their low emissions, head-pinning acceleration, or both. It’s also possible that the industry will take a beating on high-cost production of low-volume models in the early years. Ford was downgraded by Moody’s to junk borrowing status in September. Its 6.8% dividend yield is high enough to add appeal, but too high to offer comfort.

GM is stronger financially, but its stock could stall until electric trucks hit the highways and more is known about their impact on sales. Anyway, overall vehicle demand in North America has been gently slipping.

Tesla stock has shot from under $200 to over $330 since the spring. The company has promised ongoing profitability from here, but it has more vehicles nearing launch than it has in production, and demand for its older platforms, which have the best margins, has slowed.

Ford v. Ferrari, a movie about Carroll Shelby, a Texan who took on the European racing establishment on Ford’s behalf in 1966, has been beating expectations at the box office. Morgan Stanley’s Jonas recently published a report that borrowed the film’s title for a comparison of the two companies’ financial metrics. They have similar enterprise values, by his math, yet Ford sells 500 times as many vehicles. He calculates an estimated 5% free cash yield for Ford this year, and just over 2% for Ferrari (RACE). But he recommends both stocks: Ford for its potential to cut costs and improve profitability, and Ferrari for its fast growth.

Investors can do something similar with, say, General Motors and Tesla, but I’m not sure that it will be terribly informative. One is cheap, relative to recent results. The other is reasonable only based on distant ambitions. But the whole industry could be headed for a supply shock in electric vehicles. Consider watching the race from a safe distance.

