What a difference a year makes—you don’t have to look much further than the reaction to earnings from IBM and Netflix to see the change.

Last October there was nearly a full-blown panic about the sustainability of record levels of corporate debt. That led to a selloff in the shares of firms with high levels of debt and/or consistent cash burn, such as General Electric (GE) and Tesla (TSLA).

This year, however, investors don’t seem nearly as worried about cash flow. That dynamic played out in the contrast in investors’ response to third-quarter earnings to International Business Machines (IBM) and Netflix (NFLX).

Both companies reported better-than-expected earnings after the close of trading Oct. 16. They also both reported sales that fell a bit short of Wall Street analysts’ forecasts.

But Netflix shares rallied on the news, and were up 3.5% in afternoon trading. IBM shares, in contrast, were down 5.7% around 2:15 p.m. EDT.

Analysts attributed Netflix’s rally to the fact that its third-quarter subscriber growth almost met forecasts, after missing estimates by a wide margin the prior quarter. Credit Suisse analysts called the results “encouraging.”

Investors have been more downbeat about the company’s growth in recent months, so the stock was cheaper than usual going into the third-quarter earnings report.

Still, Netflix has consistently burned cash, and expects an outflow of nearly $2 billion of cash in the fourth quarter. And the streaming platform will face pricing pressure from new competitors like Walt Disney (DIS) and Comcast (CMCSA). So CreditSights maintained an “Underperform” rating on the company’s bonds on Thursday.

IBM, in contrast, is generating cash. Yet its stock still fell, even as the company reported strong results from the Red Hat business it bought this year. The problem was a decline in revenues from a key tech-services outsourcing business, analysts said.

Lisa Ellis from MoffettNathanson, who had a “Sell” rating on the stock coming into its report, called the results “underwhelming and complicated.”

Of course, part of the reason for the worry about IBM’s growth is the roughly $20 billion debt burden it took on to buy Red Hat. And investors are worried that the company could look to buy more companies to gin up more growth.

Yet the company is pausing its share buybacks to pay back debt, which could reduce the company’s leverage by $13 billion over the next two years, according to CreditSights.

That amount of debt reduction would leave it with leverage that is still a bit high for its rating—but the company’s debt is rated more than four tiers above high yield, which means its balance-sheet health would need to deteriorate significantly for it to be downgraded to junk.

Netflix, in contrast, is already a high-yield credit. It is rated at BB- by S&P Ratings, three tiers below investment grade, and analysts don’t expect that rating to improve any time soon.

“It seems probable that Netflix will return to the [high-yield] bond market in the near term,” wrote CreditSights analyst Hunter Martin.

Shareholders might want to pay attention to that market—if Netflix’s preference for cash burn ends up hurting it, that’s where the damage could show up first.
