Continued demand won’t help Tesla investors if the company doesn’t show it can return to profitability, an analyst wrote Monday.

Tesla stock (TSLA), down about 30% in 2019 through Friday’s close, was recently up 1.1% to $234 as the S&P 500 fell 0.2%. Wedbush analyst Daniel Ives reiterated a Neutral rating and a $220 price target that is below FactSet’s $271 average.

“The biggest overhang around the story is the ability to hit profitability and achieve its ambitious unit guidance for 2019 of 360,000 to 400,000 units,” wrote Ives, a former bull who downgraded the stock in May amid concerns about delivery numbers. “Balancing the ability to hit these goals with a profitable business model remains the crux of the challenges for Tesla.”

Tesla earlier this month reported preliminary third-quarter delivery and production numbers that showed sequential growth while coming in below FactSet’s analyst average.

Investors now await full-third-quarter financial results, with Wall Street anticipating a third-consecutive net loss before a return to profitability in the fourth quarter.

“We continue to believe the stock will be range bound and under some pressure until the company reports earnings,” Ives wrote. “Last quarter the demand [and] delivery numbers looked great only to be followed by a very disappointing gross margin profile.”

The company has not yet announced the date for its third-quarter report.

Meanwhile, Tesla continues to advance its growth efforts on multiple fronts. A Chinese factory has reportedly begun producing vehicles, and recent reports indicated that PepsiCo (PEP) plans to use the under-development Tesla semi truck at a California facility. Tesla has said production of that truck could start in 2020.

“We believe a large, sophisticated customer with an equally as large and sophisticated supply chain, such as Pepsi, taking on Tesla Semis for ’real world’ commercial use is an important validation milestone for the company and for electric vehicles more broadly,” Morgan Stanley analysts wrote Monday, calling the Pepsi reports “a good sign that management will be able to keep to the timeline and begin rolling out the Semi more broadly next year.”
