Orders for the battery-powered pickup truck keep coming in. Tesla CEO Elon Musk tweeted out “250K” Tuesday night. That’s an impressive result, but Wall Street isn’t convinced Cybertruck will be a long-term success for the electric-vehicle pioneer because a these orders might not be full-fledged orders.


“The high number of initial preorders for Tesla’s [ticker: TSLA] Cybertruck is an encouraging sign for the vehicle with a controversial design, even though reservations only require a $100 refundable deposit,” wrote Deutsche Bank analyst Emmanuel Rosner in a Monday research report.

It’s the $100 figure that is giving analysts pause. It’s a low bar to reserve a place in line. And it raises the possibility that Cybertruck reservations won’t get converted into deliveries.

“Usually conversation rates have been north of 70% based on our estimates,” Wedbush analyst Dan Ives tells Barron’s. “But with only a $100 deposit—versus one in the $1,000 to $2,500 [range]—we expect conversion rates to be much more volatile on the Cybertruck.”

Tesla has always required deposits to reserve cars. The company has $665 million in customer deposits on hand, as of third quarter financial filings.

The Model 3 required a $1,000 deposit when it was launched and Tesla’s midsize sedan garnered 276,000 orders in its first week. Today, the Model 3—now in production—can be reserved for $100, just like Cybertruck. The coming Tesla roadster requires a larger commitment. Customers need to put up $50,000 to reserve the highly anticipated sports car.

It appears production models can be reserved for about $100 and newer models going into production require more cash—with the exception of Cybertruck. Most deposits are fully refundable, but Barron’s isn’t certain about the roadster deposit or reservation total. Tesla wasn’t immediately available for comment and didn’t return multiple requests for comment about order-conversion rates.

Even if the Cybertruck order number is complicated, investors might want to not over think it. ”The pipeline of preorders is a great feather in the cap for Musk,” says Ives. “But it all comes down to conversion in 2021 [and] 2022, that’s what the Street is focused on.”

Rosner also sees some Cybertruck positives despite the low reservation price. “The high trim mix of initial reservations is potentially even more positive [than reservations],” writes the analyst. “We struggled to see how Tesla could generate positive margins on the [rear-wheel drive] model.”



Cybertruck is available in three configurations: a one-motor rear-wheel drive; a two-motor all-wheel drive; and a three-motor all-wheel drive. More than 80% of orders—as of Saturday, when Musk tweeted the statistic—were for all-wheel drive options.

Rosner and Ives both rate Tesla stock at the equivalent of Hold and have $290 and $270 price targets for the stock, respectively.

Since the launch event, Tesla stock is down about 5%. Design disappointment might be responsible, but the stock is still up about 55% over the past three months. Traditional truck maker Ford Motor (F) shares, for comparison, have risen about 4% since the Cybertruck was revealed. The S&P 500 is up about 2% over the same span.
