
Tesla has become the Donald Trump of the stock market. Investors love or hate the electric-car maker much like the electorate feels sharply divided about the president.

While Trump’s political fate will be decided next year by voters, or earlier by impeachment proceedings, Tesla’s (ticker: TSLA) latest defining moment—yes, this controversial stock has had many such moments—will soon be at hand.

Tesla is about to unveil an electric pickup truck, thus entering an ultracompetitive auto category. The Nov. 21 event—and the subsequent reaction in the stock and options market—will help determine whether the cult of Tesla will relive the bearish volatility that defined the earlier part of the year, or if it will ride the stock’s recent extraordinary strength into 2020.

Since late September, Tesla stock has rallied about 58%, while the S&P 500 index has gained some 7%. So far this year, though, the stock is up an anemic 4%, compared with about 20% for the index.

The lumpiness of Tesla’s stock performance seems to ensure that anyone who trades or follows Tesla must endure the kind of theatrics found in bare-knuckle political campaigns.




During the past 52 weeks, Tesla stock has ranged from $176.99 to $379.49. One analyst just raised Tesla’s target price to $400 from $300. Others have raised concerns that General Motors (GM) and Ford Motor (F) will challenge Tesla by introducing competing electric pickups. The tension is palpable, especially since Tesla just reported surprisingly good earnings, suggesting that the controversial company might finally redeem itself. Or not.

To complicate the story even more, CEO Elon Musk, who uses social media like Trump, recently engaged in another Twitter battle, this time with bearish hedge fund manager David Einhorn.

When all of this Sturm und Drang is added up, Tesla’s options are priced as if fireworks will soon shoot out of the puts and calls. Tesla’s implied volatility is around 42%, or about four times higher than the S&P 500. Tesla’s historic volatility is around 60%. This means the stock is priced in the options market as if shares could move approximately 2.5% to 4% on any given day.

Aggressive investors with an appetite for risk could sell a put and buy a call in anticipation that Tesla shares will make a sharp move in response to the truck unveiling. (Puts increase in value when the underlying security price declines, while calls increase in value when it increases.)

When the stock was around $352, investors could sell the November $347.50 put that expires on Nov. 22 for $5.38 and buy the November $355 call that expires on Nov. 22 for $6.20.

This “risk reversal,” one of our favorite strategies, obligates investors to buy Tesla stock if it is at the put strike price at expiration. Investors also profit from advances above the call strike price. If the stock is at $365 at expiration, the call is worth $15.

The key risk is that the stock falls far below the put strike price, obliging investors to buy the stock at $345 at expiration or to cover the put at a higher price.

The risk reversal takes advantage of a chronic quirk in the options market. Defensive put premiums are usually more expensive than merited. This is because investors systematically overestimate the likelihood that stock prices will decline. Bullish call options are usually too inexpensive because investors tend to underestimate the upside.

In practice, this means that investors buy puts to hedge stocks, driving up put premiums, while they underestimate rallies. Plus, many investors increasingly sell calls against their stocks—a strategy known as “overwriting”—and that further suppresses upside volatility and makes calls even cheaper.

These facts are the options market’s equivalent of the old stock-market trope about buying low and selling high, but they are not widely known. To use such a strategy on a controversial stock ahead of a key event isn’t for the faint of heart. But if you relish volatility, Tesla is one of November’s top trading opportunities.
