Tesla shares are surging Thursday after investors were stunned by the company’s third-quarter earnings beat. The rally may not last.

On Wednesday, the auto maker reported adjusted third-quarter earnings per share of $1.86, which was down from $2.90 in the prior year, but way above the 46 cent loss expected by Wall Street. Tesla generated revenue of $6.3 billion for the quarter, versus the $6.4 billion estimate.

The company’s stock (ticker: TSLA) finished up 18% to $299.68 on Thursday, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average dipped 0.1%. Despite the excitement, there are a few analysts that remain skeptical about the long-term impact of the report.

There are questions, in part, about the impact of “nonrecurring items.” In its quarterly update, the company said that auto profit margins increased quarter-on-quarter due to improvements in operating efficiency, physical material cost reductions, deferred revenue related to its coming Smart Summon feature, currency, and other nonrecurring items.

JPMorgan analyst Ryan Brinkman on Thursday reiterated his Underweight rating for Tesla shares, questioning whether the upside in profitability was sustainable.

“We aren’t certain about the quality of this beat,” he wrote. “Another analyst [on the conference call] did ask about nonrecurring items but the CFO chose in response to address the separate issues...leaving seemingly unaddressed the release’s reference to ‘other nonrecurring items’ which had piqued our interest.”

Brinkman said he doesn’t know if the ‘other nonrecurring items’ bucket significantly helped the quarter’s profits or not, which makes it hard to assess the overall result.

While the market is focused on the earnings-beat game for now, investors should take a step back and consider the absolute year-over-year data. These comparisons are a more important view of the company’s overall progress.

And the numbers aren’t great. Tesla’s third-quarter sales were down 8% year-over-year, while operating profit was down 37% from a year ago. Even the better-than-expected auto gross profit margin was down nearly 3 percentage points from the prior year.

So why is the stock up so much? One likely reason is because 36.1 million shares of Tesla are held short by investors, according to Bloomberg. Those bears are running to cover their bets today, driving shares up in the process. The short squeeze is a temporary phenomenon, though.

Over the long term, the stock market is a weighing machine for fundamentals, and that’s where things could get problematic for Tesla shareholders.

The third quarter was the first year-over-year sales decline in seven years for Tesla. What happens when a hypergrowth stock stops growing and gets valued on earnings? Multiples compress.

On Wednesday, Bank of America Merrill Lynch analyst John Murphy noted that Tesla’s pursuit of profitability over revenue growth has big ramifications for the stock’s valuation. He rates Tesla stock at Underperform.

“We have to question whether the valuation premium being ascribed to TSLA as a ‘growth’ or ‘technology’ unicorn is truly justified,” he wrote. “We would point out that [original equipment manufacturers] in our coverage typically trade at about 3x EV/Ebitda or about 10x P/E through [the auto] cycle, which in isolation implies a theoretical stock price of $28 on our revised 2020 estimates.”

A stock price of $28 for Tesla is probably too low, but the point stands: If Tesla is no longer a hypergrowth company, it’s likely to be valued on earnings. And, in that case, the current valuation doesn’t make sense.

Moreover, Tesla has a history of reporting one or two quarters of unexpected upside followed by worsening financials. Shareholders should be cautious because that pattern could repeat itself in the coming year.

Tesla did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the company’s valuation or the skeptical Wall Street reports.
