The tide seems to be turning for Tesla, at least temporarily, and the big reveal of its electric pickup truck could help it move even higher.

Tesla stock (ticker: TSLA) has come a long way since dropping 46% to start the year. Following the release of its deliveries on June 3, Tesla closed at $178.97, its lowest level since 2017. Since then, it’s been all upside.

Well, not all upside. There was the 14% drop on July 25, after Tesla reported a big loss. Tesla stock slumped 7.5% on Sept. 24 after China’s Nio (NIO) reported a huge loss. On Oct. 3, Tesla’s deliveries were lower than expected. Tesla stock fell 4.2%.

But all those losses merely kept Tesla rangebound until its third-quarter earnings on Oct. 23, which showed a surprise profit, sent the stock up 18%. With the stock up 0.5% at $346.75 at 2:31 p.m. Tuesday, Tesla stock is now up 4.2% in 2019.

So now what? We could easily be one Elon Musk tweet away from Tesla tumbling again, but it has also shown it can gain a lot of ground very quickly. And the launch of its pickup truck, scheduled for Nov. 21, could be what determines which way it goes.

Morgan Stanley analyst Adam Jonas notes that Tesla’s current products—the Model S, Model X, and Model 3—are “old,” “overly engineered,” and in a “shrinking/narrowing sedan segment,” respectively. But pickup trucks are not only one of the largest and fastest-growing segments of the auto market, but might also be the most profitable. Jonas notes observes that 100% of General Motors ’ (GM) North American profits come from pickups, while Ford Motor (F) gets more than 100% of its profits from the segment. That means there is real potential for Tesla.

Success, however, is from guaranteed, writes Jonas, who rates Tesla stock Equal Weight with a $250 price target. “Entrants such as Toyota Motor (TM), Nissan Motor (NSANY), and Honda Motor (HMC) have generally struggled over the years to make in-roads into this market,” he explains. “The onus is on Tesla to provide a capable product that can tap into the authentic ‘made in America’ loyalty enjoyed by its Detroit rivals.”
