
We remain bullish on Altria as we consider the solid growth outlook for the business in relation to the discount valuation prevailing for the shares. While the share price has recovered partially following the downdraft after the attempted merger with Philip Morris, it is not back to bright, even amid a strong fundamental performance for the company in its recent third-quarter earnings and signs of improving cigarette volumes, given the building weakness in e-vapor volumes. A negative sentiment for the shares should shift to positive in the coming months as fundamentals improve. We are raising our target price to $54, reflecting just a 10 times Ebitda ratio, with the growth profile and strong dividend yield giving upside support.

Nvidia NVDA-Nasdaq
Buy Price $207.99 on Nov. 19
by SunTrust Robinson Humphrey

Nvidia’s presentation and Q&A session with investors at SC19 [a supercomputing conference] support our long-term thesis. We expect Nvidia to outperform, owing to superior positioning in gaming, server acceleration/artificial intelligence, and (eventually) autonomous driving. We believe that its competitive positioning derives less from its chips and more from its software investment, innovation, and ecosystem of incumbency. Price target stays at $240 based on a robust 30 times price/earnings ratio (but still a discount to high-growth peers).

Canopy Growth CAD-NYSE
Buy Price $15.32 on Nov. 20
by Bank of America Merrill Lynch

Two months ago, we downgraded Canopy shares, arguing that Street estimates for Canopy (and peers) were far too high, given a temporary slowdown in provinces ordering cannabis. Now, with shares down 38% versus SPX 5% since our downgrade, “bad news out,” a more reasonable valuation, channel inventory getting leaner, data that will look better ahead (retail volume), a bear case based on multiple compression and, to a certain extent, cash burn that seems less robust now, Street estimates are achievable (even beatable) for maybe the first time in Canopy’s history as a public company. To be clear, Canopy remains a show-me story with much to prove and a new CEO still ahead. But the worst looks over, and if momentum returns, the market may again contemplate what Canopy could become. With this setup, we upgrade shares to Buy from Neutral with no change to price objectives of C$24 ($19).

Salesforce.com CRM-NYSE
Outperform Price $164.20 on Nov. 21
by Oppenheimer

After attending yesterday’s investor day, we have gained increased confidence in Salesforce’s abilities to 1) grow organic revenue 20% over the next 12 to 24 months from further share gains in customer information-technology budgets and the worldwide software market; 2) beat consensus estimates in fiscal 2021 for operating margin expansion and cash flow; and 3) become its customers’ strategic supplier for digital transformation initiatives due to the compelling combination of MuleSoft, Tableau, and Salesforce’s best-of-breed products. We remain Outperform on Salesforce, given management’s commitment at the investor day to sustaining growth with improving profitability, and the company heading to a better position for monetizing on its large installed base in 2020. Raising price target to $190 from $180.

Tesla TSLA-Nasdaq
Neutral Price $354.83 on Nov. 22
by Wedbush

Last night (Nov. 21), Tesla unveiled its Cybertruck, which will be added to its electric-vehicle model lineup probably in late 2021 or 2022. Musk & Co. are clearly thinking way out of the box on this model design, which looks more like a stealth bomber than a pickup truck. The most impressive part of the design is the “ultrahard” stainless-steel alloy that Musk is using with SpaceX on its Starship rocket. This skeleton-like structure is durable and seats six people. The starting price of $39,900 was a bit of a shocker, since the Street was looking for $50,000 to $55,000. Musk had previously indicated that his Cybertruck would be more affordable than its main competitor, Rivian, whose R1T electric pickup starts at $69,000. The Cybertruck will be offered in three models: a single-motor version with battery range of 250+ miles (base model); a dual-motor version with a battery version of 300+ miles, starting at $49,900; and a trifecta-motor version with a range of 500+ miles, which starts at $69,900. 
