The General Motors Lordstown plant—the facility at the heart of a Twitter beef with President Donald Trump—is no longer a General Motors plant. It will live on though, carving out a niche in commercial electric vehicles. GM, however, won’t be left out of truck EVs and will invest $3 billion in Michigan facilities that will build battery-powered pickups, among other products.

It seems as if the age of the electric truck is nigh. Ford Motor (ticker: F) and General Motors (GM) dominate truck sales, but both are facing new competition from EV start-ups. The two companies, however, are making investments in those same start-ups in some cases to ensure dominance in trucks over the long run.


The facility that set off the Twitter firestorm in March is now transferring to Lordstown Motor, or LMC, established by former Workhorse Group (WKHS) CEO Steve Burns. Workhorse will keep a 10% stake in LMC for its technology and for transferring 6,000 electric truck orders to LMC. Workhorse, a development stage company, is expected to report only about $2 million in sales this year. Beyond trucks, Workhorse actually developing an “octo-copter,” an easy-to-fly aircraft with eight rotors.

It looks as if LMC is hoping to become the Tesla (TSLA) of commercial trucks.

Tesla, don’t forget, produces its popular EVs in a plant once jointly owned by General Motors and Toyota Motor (TM). Now LMC is buying a GM plant.

Tesla has its own truck announcement, said to be coming at the end of November. So did GM try to one-up Tesla with Friday’s sale? Probably not. GM announced the sale earlier in the year, but won the right to sell the plant as part of the new labor agreement with the UAW.

GM released a statement on its website reiterating the company’s commitment to the plant and jobs in the Ohio area.

“This long-term partnership allows Workhorse to benefit by both monetizing our existing technology and participating in the upside potential of this new venture without prohibitively diluting our existing shareholders,” Workhorse CEO Duane Hughes said in a statement. Letting LMC buy the company means Workhorse doesn’t need to raise significant cash.

Workhorse isn’t the only EV pickup truck in development. Tesla has a heavy duty semi-truck on the drawing board. Ford invested in Rivian, another electric truck start-up earlier in 2019. Of course, GM and Ford have their own electric-truck plans.

Trucks are Ford and General Motors most profitable products. It is something the companies hint at, but never confirm. All the investments and internal development in electric trucks appear designed to keep that true in the future—no matter which EV start-up gains traction in the marketplace.

GM shares are up about 18% year to date. Ford stock is up more than 20% year to date. Both returns are not too far off comparable gains of the S&P 500. GM shares are up 0.3% in premarket trading.

Corrections & Amplifications
GM does not have a stake in LMC, the entity buying the Lordstown plant. An earlier version of this article said GM would take a 10% stake in LMC. 
