At this point, even Elon Musk looks like a Tesla skeptic. Not that long ago, the founder and CEO wanted to take his company private for $420 a share. The blowback, you might recall, was significant, and the deal never got past the tweet stage.

But in setting a go-private price, Musk—never conservative with his ambitions—put a value of $76 billion on the company. After doubling in price in less than two months, Tesla (ticker: TSLA) is worth $750 a share, or $135 billion. For a brief moment last Tuesday, its market value hit $175 billion.

So what changed from Musk’s August 2018 $420 tweet to today? Not all that much. Tesla is still talking about its goal of making 500,000 cars a year. The company finished 2019 with 367,500 deliveries, but it says vehicle deliveries “should comfortably exceed 500,000 units” in 2020.

Wall Street analysts have actually gotten less bullish on Tesla’s near-term profitability. A year ago, they expected Tesla to generate 2020 earnings of $10.89 per share. Now, the Street is forecasting earnings per share of $8.49. That 22% cut has been met with a 136% gain for the stock.

To a Tesla bull, less profit just means more ambition. In its recent fourth-quarter update, Tesla said, “We expect positive GAAP net income going forward, with possible temporary exceptions, particularly around the launch and ramp of new products.”

This year’s Tesla road map includes a new crossover vehicle known as the Model Y. Given Americans’ penchant for larger vehicles, it’s reasonable to assume that it will outsell the already popular Model 3 sedan. Tesla says Model Y production started last month, ahead of schedule. That’s new for Tesla, which isn’t known for hitting deadlines. It plans to deliver the first Model Y by the end of March.

Each car sold could move the needle for Tesla stock. At its current market cap, Tesla is valued at $367,000 for each 2019 delivery. General Motors (GM), which sold 7.7 million cars last year, is valued at $6,400 per car.

Tesla fans will argue with the comparison to a shrinking maker of combustion-engine vehicles. So let’s try BMW (BMW.Germany). The German luxury-car maker—with real ambition in the electric-vehicle market—gets valued at $17,000 per car sold.

Just to recap: That’s $367,000 for Tesla, $17,000 per BMW, and $6,400 for GM. (For more on Tesla versus GM, see “General Motors Stock Is More Like Tesla Than You May Realize?”)

There’s really no justifying the Tesla math. But it’s also folly to bet against the stock. For years, Barron’s has offered reasoned arguments for why the shares were overpriced. Many of those arguments still apply—batteries are expensive, competition is coming, the CEO is distracted. None of this has mattered.

My colleague Al Root has analyzed Tesla’s every move over the past year. Al always has an explanation, but this past Tuesday, his story was headlined “Tesla Stock Jumped 20%. It Makes No Sense.” It’s the most-read article of the year on Barrons.com, by far.
Tesla is an object of fascination, and the higher the stock goes, the more fascinating it gets. The cars are lust-worthy—yes, I want one. The electric-vehicle mission is praiseworthy. And the market opportunity is tremendous. But the business is cutthroat, and the CEO is mercurial.


The best non-Barron’s analysis I saw this week came from Citron Research, which tweeted, “We love $TSLA and promised never to be short again. BUT when the computers start driving the market, we believe even Elon would short the stock here if he was a fund manager. This is no longer about the technology, it has become the new Wall St casino.”

For now, the house is losing big. If you bought Tesla stock on any date in 2019 and held on, your position is up at least 74%. For the folks who bought in June, at the stock’s low, you’re up more than threefold. There has been one exception—anyone who bought Tesla shares midday on Tuesday has already lost 23%. Drive carefully.
