The electric-vehicle pioneer Tesla plans to sell more stock to the public and has received a subpoena from securities regulators—just two of a series of disclosures made by the company in documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Thursday.

Bullish and bearish investors will pore over the filings looking for tidbits to strengthen their arguments. Here are some details from Barron’s review.


The Subpoena
The SEC can scare investors. They check up on companies’ accounting and financial practices. Tesla (ticker: TSLA) got a new request from the regulatory agency.

“On December 4, 2019...issued a subpoena seeking information concerning certain financial data and contracts including Tesla’s regular financing arrangements,” reads the company’s annual report, filed on a form 10k.

The revelation might spook investors. The request doesn’t mean anything is inappropriate, or that the SEC is concerned it might be. It’s just too early to tell. Tesla didn’t respond to a request to provide additional detail.

Common Stock
In a separate filing, Tesla also said it was selling new shares to the public. The company plans to sell about 2.7 million shares—a little more than 1% of the total stock outstanding—raising about $2 billion in the process.

The stated use of proceeds is “to further strengthen our balance sheet, as well as for general corporate purposes.” That’s standard language.

Selling stock is one way the company can benefit from its soaring share price. Tesla shares are up an incredible 86% year to date, crushing comparable moves of the S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average.

But bears will point out selling shares is a signal to investors that management believes shares are fully valued. No one wants to sell something they think is underpriced.
Not everyone will feel that the news is a signal to sell. Raising money when the stock is high is sensible. In addition, CEO Elon Musk and board member Larry Ellison will buy stock in the offering.

Shares had dropped as much as 4% in premarket trading, but were up about 1%, at about $779, by mid-morning. The intraday swing is more than $36, or 5%.

Warranties
Warranties at Tesla have generated controversy in the past.

The 2019 warranty expense was $555 million, up from $544 million in 2018. The 2019 figure is about 1.7% of 2019 sales, down from 2.2% of sales in 2018. The decrease is noteworthy, but it is hard to know all the inputs that go into calculating a warranty expense. No car company provides enough transparency to assess it in detail.

Warranty payments actually incurred by Tesla in 2019 were $250 million, up about 20%. But that growth was below the roughly 30% jump in 2019 sales. Tesla’s cars were fairly reliable over 2019.

This is just the news from an early look at the documents. These and other disclosures are likely to keep moving Tesla shares throughout the day.

Cash Flow
The decision to raise money surprised some investors. Musk said on Jan. 29 that raising money “doesn’t make sense” because the company was generating cash from its operations. Tesla has generated free cash flow—which is operating cash flow minus capital spending—in five of the past six quarters. What’s more, 2019 free cash flow totaled almost $1 billion.

ZEV Credits
Some of Tesla’s corporate cash flow is generated by selling zero-emissions vehicle, or ZEV, credits in California. Sales from the credits totaled $594 million in 2019, and $419 million and $360 million in 2018 and 2017, respectively.
