Space tourism and technology company Virgin Galactic reported fourth-quarter numbers Tuesday evening after the close of trading.

The company lost about 30 cents a share from $529,000 in sales. Wall Street expected a loss of 21 cents per share from less than $1 million in sales.

It might look like an earnings miss, but Virgin Galactic (ticker: SPCE) only has three analysts covering the company, according to FactSet. That makes the concept of Wall Street consensus earnings less applicable. Tesla (TSLA), for instance, has more than 30 analysts covering its shares.

Virgin Galactic (ticker: SPCE) is a new, early-stage company. Earnings, at this point, don’t really matter to investors. Instead, investors will focus on customer inquiries about space tourism. Virgin said inquiries have more than doubled since year end 2019, an impressive pickup in just a couple of months.

The company wants to take tourists to space, but flights don’t begin until later in 2020 at the earliest. Further down the road, the company wants to commercialize hypersonic flight. That is flight at about five times the speed of sound, or 3,000 miles per hour. Hypersonic flight is about a decade away, according to the company. The development cost for ultra-fast travel isn’t known yet.

“Throughout 2019, we continued to achieve key milestones in our mission to open access to space in a safe, innovative and affordable way,” said CEO George Whitesides in the company’s news release. “The progress we made in 2019, combined with the high level of interest from potential customers, underpin the steps we are taking toward reopening ticket sales. We are continuing to build on our strong momentum as we enter the most exciting chapter of our story to date and prepare for commercial launch.”

Virgin reported 600 “astronauts” in backlog, as well as more than 3,000 inbound inquires about flying on one of the company’s spacecraft as of December 31, 2019. The company didn’t update the backlog figure, but said in the news release that inquiries more than doubled to almost 8,000.

Ticket prices are estimated to be about $250,000 each. If all the interest was converted into flights, that would amount to roughly $2 billion in sales. That’s something investors will focus on. The company also exited the year with $480 million on the balance sheet.


Virgin Galactic recently took its VSS Unity spacecraft to to complete the final stages of its test flight program. Flight testing, along with demand, will likely come up on the company’s conference call for analysts and investors, which begins at 5 p.m. ET.

Virgin Galactic stock has been on an incredible run. Shares are up about 200% year to date and 380% over the past three months, crushing comparable returns of the S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average.

Shares are down about 4.5% in after-hours trading, but with a stock as volatile as SPCE, the decline isn’t a complete surprise. What company management says on the earnings conference call should matter more to shares than what was contained in the new release.
