The next big risk for Tesla stock might come and go without much fanfare. The electric-vehicle pioneer will likely file its annual report with the Securities and Exchange Commission in about a week. Both bulls and bears will pore over the lengthy document looking for new disclosures that tell a more-detailed story about Tesla’s profit and production.

Risk is on the minds’ of investors after the epic run the stock has been on. Tesla (ticker: TSLA) shares are up more than 80% year to date and more than 120% over the past three months, crushing comparable gains of the S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average. The rise has left Tesla as the second most valuable car company on the globe, trailing only Japan’s Toyota Motor (TM).

The bears, however, aren’t convinced all the gains are rational. Tesla remains a heavily shorted stock, according to data analytic provider S3. Bearish investors have borrowed and sold more than 18% of all Tesla stock available for trading, betting on price declines.

What’s more, only about 20% of analysts covering the company rate shares the equivalent of Buy, far below the 55% average buy-rating ratio for stocks in the Dow Industrials. Analyst price targets range from about $250 a share—down 67% from recent levels—to $800 a share. Tesla remains a stock with widely divergent views on the Street.

That means that bulls and bears will pay close attention to the company’s annual filing, looking for details to enhance their arguments.

Last year, Tesla filed its annual report on Feb. 19. That was 20 days after the company reported its fourth-quarter 2018 numbers. Tesla reported fourth-quarter 2019 earnings on Jan. 29. Twenty days after that is Feb 19. There is no set schedule for filing an annual report, but investors can expect to see the document soon.

Warranty expenses should be a big topic for analysts. Car companies recognize a noncash expense for warranties, predicting how much it might cost to make repairs to cars recently delivered to customers. Changing assumptions about quality and recalls can affect warranty expenses and, thus, reported earnings. What’s more, quarterly and annual filings typically contain much greater detail than earnings news releases, enabling analysts to go back and opine on “earnings quality.”

Tesla is a little unusual in that it is a relatively new car company—with limited warranty history—and it sells only high-end, luxury vehicles. Still, its warranty-expense history doesn’t looks strange compared with the industry.

Tesla also defers a portion of its sales—recognizing them at a later date—in accordance with standard accounting practices. Accounting choices such as deferred sales can generate differences of opinion for Wall Street analysts.

While rules require companies to recognize sales when products are delivered, because Tesla promises things such as software upgrades to its customers, a small portion of each car sale ends up on the balance sheet and not on its income statement in, say, the quarter a Model 3 was delivered. Tesla’s deferred-revenue balance has been volatile, but that is mainly attributable to the rules setters. Regulators changed the rules for deferred sales in 2018.

Those are a couple of factors investors have focused on in the recent past. It is hard to pinpoint all the issues that can arise. Tesla’s 2018 annual report was more than 400 pages. There is a lot to review.

Tesla, for instance, recently started selling auto insurance to drivers in California. That creates more reserves for future claims that will grow as the captive insurance business grows.

“It is always easy for a bear to make a bear case [based on accounting],” tax and accounting expert Robert Willens said in an interview. “Sometimes it’s valid, but frequently it’s not.”

So both bears and bulls have risk when Tesla’s annual report comes out. All anyone can really be certain of is that the annual report will fuel more volatile trading in shares for a few days after its release.
