Robert Willens just celebrated his 12th anniversary as an independent tax and financial-accounting analyst for hedge funds and other Wall Street pros. To survive as a bespoke accounting research firm—and one charging $75,000 a year—at a time when investors could get tax advice from Wall Street’s big brokerage firms is a testament to Willens’ longstanding reputation for expertise.

Before founding Manhattan-based Robert Willens LLC, Willens spent 20 years at Lehman Brothers, advising the firm on corporate capital transactions and helping clients use the tax code and accounting nuance to generate potentially lucrative investment ideas. He was named to Institutional Investor’s All-American Research Team for 15 consecutive years.

Willens is no stranger to Barron’s, either. Throughout his career, he has provided astute commentary on a range of corporate tax maneuvers, accounting ploys, and tax issues affecting individual investors.

In a recent interview, Willens highlighted several tax issues of growing importance to his clientele, as well as recent changes in the tax code that could confound, and reward, investors. He also spotlighted a savvy tax move that should leave MGM Resorts International (ticker: MGM), the gambling company, in fighting trim.

Robert Willens: Corporate spinoffs. One question that comes up frequently is, how soon after a spinoff can one or both of the companies involved be acquired without jeopardizing the tax-free nature of the spinoff? The companies have to demonstrate that a subsequent acquisition wasn’t part of the spinoff plan. Most people think there is kind of a two-year embargo on taking over companies that have been involved in a spinoff. That’s not true; the law is more nuanced.

Spinoffs are popular these days: There are 10 pending and eight were completed in the past couple of years. How do today’s spinoffs differ from spinoff activity in the past?

Lifetime Exemption
A tip for individual taxpayers

$11.6M
Amount in assets that a taxpayer can gift in 2020, removing the assets from the base on which a wealth tax would be imposed, while also avoiding a gift tax

Leveraged spinoffs have become increasingly popular. In this case, the spinoff company borrows money to pay a preliminary dividend up to the parent, leaving the obligation with the subsidiary. Every spinoff we talk about nowadays has that feature. Merck [MRK] announced one on Feb. 5: It will spin off a variety of its products and extract $9 billion from the “NewCo.”

Do leveraged spinoffs worry you?

I don’t believe leveraged spinoffs are troubling. There is a sound theory, called the conduit theory, for why parent corporations aren’t taxed on the dividends they receive from their soon-to-be spun-off subs. The parent is required to “use” those dividends to retire debt or repurchase stock and, thus, is merely a conduit for the funds that it is bound to pass on to its shareholders/creditors.

What else are clients watching?

Watch out for companies that change the life of depreciable assets.
— Robert Willens
Credit-loss recognition at banks is another big issue. In the past, companies could recognize a loss when it was probable it had been incurred. Under regulations introduced this year, companies are required to account for expected credit losses over the life of a financial asset. That necessitates forecasting, but the Financial Accounting Standards Board doesn’t specify, or even recommend, a method for evaluating expected credit losses, or the use of particular inputs.

What does that mean for investors?

There is no doubt that the change dramatically increases the odds of earnings declines for lenders in 2020.

I prefer a more standardized approach to things. I appreciate that you don’t want to be too prescriptive, because rules that are too prescriptive are a little easier to get around. On the other hand, I want to see members of an industry accounting for things pretty much the same way.

Accounting choice can lead to accounting shenanigans. What are some things to watch for?

Watch out for companies that change the life of depreciable assets, lengthening the life to stretch out the depreciation period [which reduces expenses]. We also get questions about revenue recognition. The guidelines are difficult to implement.

How difficult? A sale is a sale.

It’s complicated when companies have multiple deliverables, providing both goods and services. They allocate a transaction price among them, recognizing revenue only when they have satisfied an obligation. The most prominent of the companies currently being scrutinized by regulators for improper revenue recognition is Under Armour [UAA]. [The company says that its accounting is appropriate.] Others encountering revenue-recognition issues in the recent past include Quantum [QMCO], MiMedx [MDXG], and Infosys [INFY].

These issues will continue to plague corporations because the standards for revenue recognition are still uncomfortably vague, leading in some cases to honest errors regarding the timing of revenue realization. Even Tesla [TSLA] has a deferred revenue liability. Investors argue about their accounting choices, too.

In Tesla’s case, investors argue about more than that.

There is almost no way to satisfy everybody with the manner and rate at which companies take in deferred revenue. It is easy for short sellers and others to criticize a company’s accounting because there is always going to be another view as to how rapidly the company is bringing down reserves, or whether it is overreserved and whether inventory should be written down. Sometimes, the criticism is valid, but frequently it’s not. The new credit-loss recognition rules are going to create even more controversy.

While some tax and accounting issues are troublesome, others give rise to investment opportunities. Can you cite a recent example?

Yes. MGM Resorts is going asset-light, or selling its hotels, including the Bellagio, MGM Grand, and Mandalay Bay. The company recently said that it is selling the latter two to a partnership including Blackstone Group [BX]. These are valuable properties that have accrued large gains, although the book value is quite small. If MGM sold the properties outright, it would create large gains for tax purposes. Instead, the sale to a leveraged partnership, of which MGM is a part, allows the company to raise cash using these properties, yet defer the taxes on the gain from the sale for as long as 10 or 15 years.

Explain the leverage part, please.

MGM will contribute the hotels to the partnership, which will borrow an amount roughly equal to the fair market value of the hotels. The partnership will distribute [the money] within 90 days of the borrowing. As long as MGM guarantees the loan, even on a limited basis, the company isn’t going to be taxed on those proceeds until such time as the loan is repaid.

So MGM effectively borrows the cash instead of selling the hotels. No capital gain, no tax event. That sounds like taking something off the balance sheet.

The company will put on the balance sheet the fair market value of the guaranty, but that isn’t going to be anything near the full exposure they have. The chance of MGM having to honor this guaranty is quite small, next to nothing. Virtually the entire amount isn’t going to hit the balance sheet.

For MGM, this frees up cash for investment.

Exactly.

Beyond corporate accounting, do you have any tax advice for individuals?

With the potential for a wealth or net- worth tax on the horizon, it’s good to know that the lifetime exemption amount, for the period from 2018 to 2025, has been increased. For 2020, that amount is expected to be approximately $11.6 million. Thus, a taxpayer can gift up to $11.6 million in assets in 2020, removing them from his or her estate and from the base on which a wealth tax would be imposed, and also avoid a gift tax. In 2026, the exemption amount reverts to only $5 million.

Also, we recommend donating appreciated stocks and securities. The taxpayer gets a charitable contribution deduction for the full fair market value of the securities, and doesn’t have to pay a capital-gains tax on the amount by which the securities appreciated in value during his or her holding period for the securities.

That‘s good advice.

A “qualified charitable distribution” from an individual retirement account is an otherwise taxable distribution made directly from the IRA trustee to a qualified charity after the owner has attained age 70½. These distributions are limited to $100,000 per year. The benefit is that the amount so distributed isn’t included in the donor’s gross income, unlike normal IRA distributions.

Any other tax tips?

Real estate investment-trust dividends are attractive, since the new tax law allows an investor to exclude 20% of a qualified REIT dividend from his or her gross income.

Also, taxpayers who realize gains from the sale of securities or other appreciated assets can defer the gain from the sale by investing the proceeds in a Qualified Opportunity Fund. This is a vehicle created by the new tax law that is designed to encourage investments in designated areas within a state or municipality. It is a popular strategy for those who aren’t inclined to “take their gains” for fear of incurring a large tax liability on the gain. The reinvestment allows the tax liability to be deferred for a substantial period of time.
