Tesla stock is down more than 17% in Wednesday afternoon trading.

What’s more, shares of the electric vehicle pioneer are down an incredible $236, or 24%, since hitting an intraday high of almost $970 a share Tuesday. Investors appear to be taking profits.

Just don’t call the drop the start of a bear market in Tesla (ticker: TSLA) shares.

Bear markets are usually defined as a drop of more than 20% from recent highs. It’s a stretch to apply the definition to a single stock. Individual securities are far more volatile than indexes such as the Dow Jones Industrial Average or S&P 500.

Tesla’s annualized stock volatility, based on the past 200 trading days, is about 60%. Stock volatility is, very roughly, the swing investors should expect in a stock, up or down, over the course of a year or so.

Volatility of 60% is high, but Tesla might be a special case. Its shares, after all, are up more than 70% year to date, even after Wednesday’s dip. The same volatility metric for General Motors (GM) is 25%, and the S&P 500’s annualized volatility, based on the past 200 trading days, is about 12%.

It makes sense that the S&P 500 is less volatile than a single stock. The S&P is a blend of hundreds of stocks, some of which move in different directions each day. Moves in the S&P 500 greater than 1% are considered news. Meanwhile Tesla shares have moved more than 1% in a single session 20 times so far in 2020, and have moved more than 10% four times. The stock price action has been remarkable.

One Wall Street veteran pointed out that the weighted average price of Tesla stock from the start of the year to today is about $600. That could be one price for investors to watch. While business fundamentals rule stock prices over the long run, Wall Street traders often look at various averages and levels to figure out where a stock can find support over the short term.

Today’s move appears to have been catalyzed by another Tesla stock downgrade, and news that Tesla’s Chinese delivery figures could be delayed because of the coronavirus outbreak. Tesla didn’t respond to a request for comment about the delay.

Profit taking is another sound explanation for the decline. There is a saying on Wall Street: “No one ever lost money taking a profit.”

That’s true. Of course, staying invested for long periods of time, without dramatically trading around portfolio positions, is a tried-and-true investment strategy that has worked for countless Americans. Still, no one can really blame investors for taking some chips off the table after Tesla stock’s epic run.
