In the strange world of investing in Tesla, bullish analysts rate the stock at Hold. And targets for the share price can rise substantially when analysts downgrade the stock.

Tuesday, Jefferies analyst—and longtime Tesla (ticker: TSLA) bull—Philippe Houchois downgraded Tesla stock from the equivalent of Buy to Hold. His price target, however, rose 33% to $800 a share.

The move follows a recent pattern for Tesla stock. Wall Street’s most bullish analysts are moving to the sidelines after an epic run. Tesla stock is up more than 90% year to date, crushing comparable returns of the S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average.

New Street Research analyst Pierre Ferragu—another Tesla bull—also downgraded shares from the equivalent of Buy to Hold recently. He launched coverage of the electric-vehicle pioneer in May 2018 with a seemingly unattainable price target of $530 a share. Back then, Tesla stock exchanged hands for less than $300. In January, he downgraded the stock while raising his price target to $800 a share, the highest on Wall Street.

Ferragu’s price target was eventually eclipsed by Piper Sandler analyst Alex Potter in February. Potter still rates Tesla shares the equivalent of Buy and has a $928 price target for the stock.

Potter—with his Buy rating—is a rare breed these days. Less than one in five of the 30-plus analysts covering the company on Wall Street rate shares the equivalent of Buy. It’s the lowest percentage of Buy ratings on Tesla shares at any point over the past five years.

The average price target among analysts keeps rising though. It has gone from less than $300 to more than $540 a share over the past few months. That is still about 35% below recent levels. Despite what would ordinarily be considered negative analyst sentiment—downgrades and few Buy ratings—the stock continues to move higher.

That’s due, in part, to the fact that analysts are still bullish, even when downgrading shares. Houchois, for his part, isn’t abandoning the company. He believes Tesla is well positioned as the world seeks to move away from vehicles powered with fossil fuels. He is encouraged by improvements in Tesla’s battery technology. Still, there is a price for everything and he—apparently—wants a better entry point before buying more Tesla stock.

It was better-than-expected earnings in October that catalyzed Tesla’s epic stock-price run. Product launches and new manufacturing capacity have also helped to propel the shares.

Looking ahead, investors want more good news when the company launches its Model Y crossover-sized sport-utility vehicle later in 2020. Wall Street expects the “Y” to become Tesla’s best-selling model ever. Crossovers, trucks, and SUVs account for the majority of light vehicle sales in America.

The downgrade isn’t having much impact. Tesla shares opened Tuesday trading higher, before selling off with the broader market. Tesla stock closed down 4.1%. The S&P 500, for comparison, dropped 3%.

Tesla shares rise and fall more than the broader market on any given day. Shares have been more volatile than the market for many months. A one percentage point difference isn’t all that significant.
