
Photos from her family in Shanghai fill Lucy Qiu’s WeChat feed, with streets in her hometown emptier than the emerging market strategist has ever seen, as China grapples with a deadly new coronavirus. Severe travel restrictions, with millions on lockdown and others self-quarantining or risking social-media backlash, says Qiu, creates a drastically different situation than when she was studying in the city nearly 20 years ago during the severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, epidemic.

China itself has changed dramatically since SARS. Domestic and global economics, the skills the government can bring to the crisis, and the rapid growth and evolving demographics of the Chinese economy, all affect how quickly the virus can be contained, how painful the blow to Chinese and global growth will be, and when foreign investors can consider returning.

Bargain hunters may want to be patient for a month or two until the scope of the crisis clarifies.

Though the virus appears to be less deadly than SARS, it’s also more contagious and with a longer incubation period. Since the first cases emerged in December in Wuhan, a city of 11 million in central China, the virus has killed over 200 and sickened nearly 10,000—already surpassing the total cases during SARS. Most cases are within China, though some have been confirmed in more than a dozen other countries, and the World Health Organization has declared the virus a global health emergency.

Beijing has moved more aggressively than with SARS, quarantining an unprecedented 50 million-plus people during the Lunar New Year holiday, suspending transportation, and extending school closures. Companies ranging from Starbucks (ticker: SBUX), Tesla (TSLA), and Alphabet’s (GOOGL) Google have suspended operations, and the virus has begun to replace the U.S.-China trade war as a risk cited by companies, including Apple (AAPL), on U.S. earnings calls.

“While you can’t model geopolitics, you can at least try to model an outbreak,” says Russ Koesterich, a manager of the BlackRock Global Allocation fund. During SARS, Chinese stocks tumbled 7% in the week after Beijing announced the outbreak, and China’s economy contracted by 2.4 percentage points in the third quarter of 2003, though the overall hit to gross domestic product that year was about one percentage point, notes Wolfe Research.

But it bears repeating: China has changed since 2003 in ways that complicate this picture. The number of migrant workers has doubled, the number of nationals traveling has soared, and 60% of the population lives in cities, versus 40% in 2003.

China also has a much bigger impact globally. The country has gone from accounting for just 4% of global economic activity when SARS hit to becoming the world’s second largest economy, with about 18%. Consumption now contributes 70% of China’s GDP, up from 40% in 2003, which means that millions of people stuck at home take on a much larger significance—especially for a fragile economy already growing at its slowest rate in decades.

But strategists—including Qui, who focuses on Asia Pacific asset allocation for UBS Global Wealth Management—aren’t reversing calls made at the start of 2020 that favored emerging market stocks, especially in China. The consensus view: China’s economy will suffer a painful blow, probably worse than during SARS, but it will be short-lived—and isn’t likely to derail the global economy as long as the outbreak is contained. (For more on the epidemic’s effect on the U.S., see The Economy, “Recession? Correction? Coronavirus Isn’t Likely to Cause Either.”)

The Lunar New Year is normally a bonanza for retail, travel, and leisure companies, with retail sales growth consistently a full percentage point above annual growth during that period. On the other hand, e-commerce, which was not widely available in 2003, makes up 20% of retail sales. People stuck at home may shop online or livestream entertainment, offsetting some of the retail decline.

For now, industrial output may have deflected a blow, since factories were closed for the holiday when the epidemic hit. Shutdowns have been extended for two weeks, though excess capacity means that full-year impact may not be meaningfully hurt as long as they reopen by April, says TS Lombard economist Rory Green. However, he adds, if production doesn’t restart by Feb. 12, travel restrictions remain or are extended, and migrant workers can’t return to jobs, supply-chain disruptions could occur, hurting global growth and rattling investors.

Beijing is expected to hike monetary and fiscal stimulus, with some fund managers anticipating that the U.S. Federal Reserve will provide help if the situation worsens. “The incredible scarcity of global growth, coupled with the long-term potential for consumption in China, and central banks coming to the rescue like we’ve never seen, mean this awful event won’t dent the market the way it used to,” says Laura Geritz, an emerging markets manager who heads Rondure Global Advisors.

While Chinese financial markets are closed until this week, the iShares MSCI China exchange-traded fund (MCHI) has fallen 10.9% since Jan. 17. So far, the outbreak isn’t rattling U.S. investors as much as the trade war did.

Improving economic data in Asia, including China, and the phase-one trade deal had raised expectations that China’s economy would stabilize in the first quarter. Many have now pushed that forecast out by a quarter. TS Lombard’s Green expects the virus to knock off one percentage point off China’s first-quarter GDP, with services bearing the brunt of the pain.

In fact, uncertainties over containment remain the big caveat. When can investors believe the worst is over? Yin Luo, Wolfe Research’s head of quantitative analysis, strategy, and economics, offers a key metric: “Once the growth rate in the number of infected changes from exponential to linear, it means the spread of the virus is under control—likely in a few months.”

Until then, caution is the byword.
