The firm that made a call for Tesla stock to hit $7,000 slashed its stake in the maker of electric cars by more than a third in the fourth quarter.

ARK Invest made a splash on Wall Street with that bullish call on Tesla stock (ticker: TSLA). Ark analyst Tasha Keeney sees Tesla stock reaching $7,000 in 2024, and that is her base case. Keeney’s bear case is $1,500, and her bull case, a whopping $15,000.

Ark, however, in its most recently reported quarter, was a big seller of Tesla stock. In a form Ark filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Jan .31, the firm disclosed that it sold 450,622 Tesla shares in the fourth quarter, cutting its holdings to 721,988 shares. Jan. 31 was also the date of Keeney’s latest Tesla research report.

In response to a request for comment, Ark provided the following statement:

“Except in rare and specific cases, ARK’s investment strategy does not allow us to purchase a security beyond a maximum position size of 10% for a portfolio. If appreciation occurs that takes the security past that threshold, the portfolio manager will use discretion to trim and reallocate assets appropriately.

“As TSLA shares appreciated approximately 70% between October 1, 2019 and December 31, 2019, ARK trimmed the position and reallocated assets according to our investment strategy.”

Ark has been trading in and out of Tesla stock. It bought 9,428 Tesla shares in the third quarter and scooped up 409,332 shares in the second quarter, according to SEC records. Right now, Ark’s Tesla ownership is about where it was at the end of the year-ago first quarter, when it held 753,850 shares.

In a May 22 Tesla report that was updated on June 28, Keeney noted a $4,000 price target with a footnote:

“While our current assessment of the company is positive, please note that it may be necessary for ARK to liquidate or reduce position sizes prior to the company attaining indicated valuation prices due to a variety of conditions including, but not limited to, client specific guidelines, changing market conditions, investor activity, fundamental changes in the company’s business model and competitive landscape, headline risk, and government/regulatory activity. Additionally, ARK does not have investment banking, consulting, or any type of fee paying relationship with the company.”
