Elon Musk deserves credit for Tesla’s decision, disclosed Thursday, to sell stock now that the shares have risen some 80% this year, to above $700.

The surprising decision—Musk said on Jan. 29 that it didn’t make sense to raise money because Tesla would generate cash despite its rapid growth—is a great call for one simple reason. As anyone who has ever lost a job knows, you can only raise money when you don’t need it. It is far better to sell stock, or borrow money, from a position of strength.

Tesla plans to sell about 2.7 million shares, raising about $2 billion in the process. The company says it will use the money to strengthen its balance sheet.

Tesla has about $13 billion in debt on the books and about $6.9 billion net of cash on hand. Net debt is less than 2 times estimated 2020 earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda.

That is lower than at the average company in the S&P 500, although car makers are tougher to analyze. Tesla, for instance, has some cash tied to its auto-insurance operations that it can’t spend to build factories.

Less than a year ago, investors were concerned that the company might have to sell stock, given how fast it was burning through cash. Now, Tesla is in a stronger position. The company has generated cash in five of the past six quarters. Full-year 2019 free cash flow—operating cash minus capital spending—reached almost $1 billion.

Shares fell 4% in premarket trading in response to news of the sale—after all, the move will dilute existing holders, and more volume to sell means pressure on prices—but rebounded for a gain of about 4% to about $801 by early afternoon.

Still, bearish analysts are likely to point out that selling stock near current levels indicates Musk, and Tesla management, think the stock is fully valued. Shares, after all, are up about 80% year to date, crushing comparable gains of the Dow Jones Industrial Average and S&P 500.

Both Musk and Larry Ellison, a board member and the founder of Oracle, will participate in the new stock offering, putting money where their mouths are.

Buying a little more stock doesn’t change Musk’s average cost to acquire shares all that much. And don’t forget, he also has stock options that will net him more than $50 billion, before taxes, if Tesla’s market value hits $650 billion. Thursday afternoon, it was at about $138 billion.

Bullish analysts will point out that Tesla is a growth company and still needs cash to build capacity and launch new models. Growing companies often require cash. In the simplest terms, it costs a lot to build a plant, and cars—which generate sales—ship far after an assembly line is complete.


Wedbush analyst Dan Ives called the move “smart and strategic” in a Thursday research report. He rates shares the equivalent of Hold, but has a $710 price target of the stock. That’s one of the higher price targets on Wall Street.

There is another, smaller, fundamental positive shareholders can reap from a stronger balance sheet: Cheaper debt. Tesla bonds rallied on the news of incoming cash, up about 0.3% Thursday. Tesla bonds have rallied in recent months, along with the stock, and now yield about 5%.

The final price Tesla will sell the shares for isn’t known. It will be set by brokerage firms who will poll clients to build a book. Shares will likely come at a discount to recent trading levels.
