The ability to hold contradictory ideas at the same time would appear to be key to investing in today’s markets.

In the week just past, we witnessed record-high prices in risky assets—including U.S. stocks and corporate bonds, both investment- and speculative-grade. At the same time, havens from risk—gold and long-term Treasury bonds—also registered records.

The latter reflected fears that the spreading coronavirus outbreak would weaken the global economy, resulting in a flight to safe assets. The former reflected investors’ expectations that the virus would spur continued strenuous countermeasures by monetary and fiscal authorities to cushion its economic impact, so that the effect would be as contained and transitory as pandemics such as SARS in 2003.

At the same time, the prospect of a democratic socialist facing off against the incumbent U.S. president in November’s election is viewed positively by Wall Street, the bastion of capitalism. The odds of President Donald Trump’s re-election are seen as better if he were opposed by Sen. Bernie Sanders, the Vermont independent who has become the front-runner for the Democrat presidential nomination. A Trump victory is viewed as bullish in the context of the $11.4 trillion rise in the U.S. stock market since his inauguration on Jan. 20, 2017, according to Wilshire Associates’ calculations.

The simultaneous rise in risk-on and risk-off sectors also was apparent within the stock market. A speculative surge in Virgin Galactic Holdings (ticker: SPCE) superseded the previous frenetic rise in Tesla (TSLA) against the backdrop of new highs in the Utilities Select Sector SPDR (XLU), the exchange-traded fund tracking what is historically the most stolid of sectors.

There is a unifying factor that squares the apparent circle, however. Investors in risky and risk-off assets both assume that global monetary authorities will supply the liquidity that will be the rising tide that will lift all prices. So far, that presumption appears to be well founded.

Yields on long-term U.S. Treasury bonds fell to the lowest level in the history of the republic, under 1.90%. The 30-year inflation-indexed bond offered a real yield of just 0.41%, but its plus sign makes it an anomaly in a world where $13.5 trillion of global bonds trade at yields below zero, before inflation is taken into account.

That also explains the continued rally in the barbarous relic, that nice rock, gold. The rap against the precious metal has always been that it provides no yield, which is irrelevant in a world of zero or negative interest rates. Not surprising in that context is the highest settlement for the nearby Comex futures contract since February 2013 on Friday at $1,644.60—up 3.9% for the week and 29.6% from a year ago.

The dissonant fact in this move is that the U.S. dollar also has been rallying. Typically, the greenback and the yellow metal move in counterpoint, with gold traditionally offering protection against the U.S. currency’s depreciation. Not this time. As the dollar has risen, the value of other currencies has sunk. As a result, the prices of gold in yen and euros are at records, even though the dollar price of bullion remains below its peak of $1,888.70, reached in August 2011.

The dual result is that there has been a flight to U.S. assets, either low-yielding bonds or highflying stocks, which are seen as relatively sheltered from the effects of coronavirus. At least until Friday, when the pessimistic side of the market’s brain took over. Led by the technology stocks, the S&P 500 index fell 1.05%, the worst showing since Jan. 31, for a 1.25% drop for the week. Until then, the market had mostly absorbed the warning on Monday from Apple (APPL) that its revenue hit from the coronavirus would be bigger than previously forecast.

Friday, however, brought news that the IHS Markit flash composite purchasing managers’ index fell sharply in February into contractionary territory, led by a plunge in new orders to the lowest level since the dark days of 2009.

Yet there’s a contradictory response from the bullish side of the brain. To appropriate technical analysts’ jargon, the bigger the drop, the bigger the pop. A short, sharp shock to the economy will result in an equal, but opposite, reaction by policy makers, already evident in China, according to this line of reasoning.

Read More Up & Down Wall Street
It’s Michael Milken’s World. Trump and Bloomberg Just Live in It.
And the coronavirus impact may be old news, according to Cornerstone Macro. The global easing cycle before the outbreak and Beijing’s rapid response should keep the global economy’s expansion on track, economist Nancy Lazar’s advisory told clients. For those who fret that efforts to date won’t be sufficient, the futures market is pricing in two Federal Reserve rate cuts of a quarter percentage point apiece, even as various central bank officials contend that current policy is appropriate.

So, which are you going to believe? Risky assets trading near records, or risk havens at exalted levels? Easy money makes both plausible.
