Tesla stock is up more than 90% year to date and up more than 130% over the past three months, crushing comparable returns of the S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average. It’s been an incredible run.

The record valuation levels may be what prompted management to sell more shares to the public. Tesla (ticker: TSLA) announced it would raise about $2 billion in new capital via a stock offering Thursday. The deal priced Thursday evening at $767 a share, about a 5% discount to the stock’s $804 closing price.

The discount isn’t a surprise. Investors buying a large block of stock always want a deal. The discount had Tesla stock down about 2.5% in premarket trading. At 1pm it was still down on Thursday’s close, at about $798.

Tesla will receive just over $2 billion from selling 2.7 million new shares. That works out to about $758 a share. Brokerage firms organizing the offering are making about $9 a share, or $24 million in total for their efforts.

Brokers also have the right to purchase another 400,000 shares at the offering price, less the $9 discount. Extra stock is another common feature of an offering. It helps brokerage firms balance all the buy and sell orders when a large block of stock needs to be moved. The additional shares would net Tesla another $300 million.

It’s likely the additional 400,000 shares will be purchased by brokers. They are paying, after all, less than the current market value. Brokerage clients, mainly large institutional investors, will be eager to pay $767.

Tesla management, for their part, says the money is to strengthen the balance sheet.

“We think the offering was prudent given current share price—albeit somewhat contrary to management’s recent commentary—and should help fund future investment,” wrote Baird analyst Ben Kallo in a Thursday research report. “Importantly, we think the announcement could provide an opportunity for analysts to close out Sell ratings and expect shares to trade up in the short term.”

More than 40% of analysts have a Sell rating on Tesla shares. That’s unusual. Wall Street favors Hold ratings when panning a stock. But Tesla has always been a controversial name. Kallo rates shares the equivalent of Hold. He has a $650 price target for the stock.

Tesla has about $13 billion in debt on the books and about $6.9 billion net of cash on hand. Net debt is less than 2 times estimated 2020 earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda. That’s lower than at the average company in the S&P, although car makers are tougher to analyze. Tesla, for instance, has some cash tied to its auto-insurance operations that it can’t spend to build factories.
