Barron’s finally found a stock performing better than Tesla. It is Virgin Galactic.

Stock in Richard Branson’s company, which promises to ferry tourists to the edge of space and back, is up about 200% year to date, crushing comparable returns of the S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average. But it also crushes Tesla’s 105% year-to-date gain. That’s saying something.

Virgin Galactic stock (ticker: SPCE) was up 14% more in Wednesday morning trading. The reasons for the rise, however, are a little mysterious.

There are no recent research notes and only three analysts cover the company, far fewer than the average number of analysts covering companies of similar size. Tesla (TSLA), for instance, has more than 35 analysts covering its stock.

All three Virgin Galactic analysts rate shares Buy, but the top target price, according to Bloomberg, is $22 a share. The stock is trading around $33. What’s more, it is trading at more than 1,000 times sales. Not earnings, sales. That’s a high multiple.

Barron’s isn’t taking shots at Virgin Galactic. Flights are slated to begin in 2020, sales are just ramping up, and the business model may work spectacularly. We would like to go to space. But the stock action is still strange. It is unusual when a stock is 50% higher than the highest Buy rating target on the Street. It is something investors should be aware of.

The recent trading action looks like another short squeeze. About 30% of the shares available for trading are sold short. A short sale is when bearish investors borrow stock and sell it, betting on price declines. That level of short interest is many times the average stock. When stocks become heavily shorted, rallies can feed on themselves as the bears rush to exit their positions.

But short squeezes don’t always explain stock rallies. Sometimes traders see a stock rising rapidly and use the trading action as a vehicle to make short-term profits. It’s risky, but experienced traders will buy and sell positions rapidly.

Longer-term investors shouldn’t assume the recent gains are tied to fundamentals. Stock fundamentals such as earnings, growth and market share win over time, but not over the short run.

Investors still interested in space or Virgin Galactic don’t have to take an all-or-nothing approach. Selling a little stock of any company at sky-high valuations is usually a good idea. But 100% of any position doesn’t have to be liquidated. And buying a tiny position in an expensive stock–to cure FOMO, or fear of missing out–is another idea for staying in the investing game.

If positions are started at these levels, though, investors must possess an iron stomach to handle the volatility.
