Tesla shares just won’t stop rising. Stock in the electric-vehicle pioneer is back above $900 a share, in a Wednesday morning move that isn’t even about the cars.

Tesla’s earnings and cash flow have been impressive for the past couple of quarters. The company (ticker: TSLA) has also made impressive operational progress, starting to build Model 3 sedans at its new Chinese facility in January. It took less than a year to bring the new manufacturing facility online.

But recently, the news about Tesla has been all about its stock price.

Shares are up about $48, or 5.6%, to $907 Wednesday morning. That is about $62, or 6%, below the stock’s all-time high, set a couple of weeks back. Traders and Wall Street denizens will argue about what constitutes a true 52-week high. Usually, highs are judged based on closing prices. In those terms, Tesla stock hit its 52-week high on Feb. 4, closing at about $887.

Tesla Stock's Incredible Rally
It’s hard for the Street to keep up when a stock rises like Tesla has.
Source: FactSet
As of Nov. 17, 5:29 p.m. ET
%
Tesla Inc.
S&P 500 Index
Dow Jones IndustrialAverage
Jan. ’20
March
May
July
Sept.
Nov.
-100
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
It’s hard to pin any day’s stock rise on only one factor. Tesla shares rallied Tuesday as a few bearish analysts raised their price targets. None of the analysts actually changed their stock ratings, or raised their target prices above where shares are trading. Still, higher targets from the bears are an acknowledgment that things are looking better for the EV maker.

Wednesday, Piper Sandler analyst Alexander Potter raised his price target to $928 from $729. He isn’t a bear though. He is a bull. Potter rates shares the equivalent of Buy. His target price is now the highest on Wall Street, according to FactSet. Potter is upbeat about the cars, but he’s also optimistic about Tesla’s other businesses.

62: Tesla vs. the Minivan
Everyone loves to talk about electric cars. And, based on the success of Tesla, it seems like everyone wants to drive one. The strange thing is no one really wants to buy them. Less than 2% of the cars sold in the U.S. this year were electric. This week, Alex Eule talks to Barron's Jack Hough about whether - after years of false starts - we might finally be on the cusp of the electric car revolution. Produced by Mette Lützhøft.


SUBSCRIBE
Tesla, of course, also has a battery storage business and owns SolarCity—the maker and installer of residential solar roofs. Tesla also owns its network of EV charging stations.

The premarket move gives Tesla a valuation of about $170 billion. It remains the second-most valuable car company in the world, behind Toyota (TM). Toyota is worth about $230 billion. Telsa has to reach about $1,250 a share to eclipse Toyota, assuming Toyota’s stock stays at recent levels.

Tesla shares are up more than 100% year to date, crushing comparable returns of the S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average.

Investors and traders don’t know what’s next for the stock price. One thing is certain, whatever happens will be a must-see TV on Wall Street.
