I had two main takeaways from the panel I hosted at the CFA Austin annual dinner where the topic was The U.S. and China: When Two Global Economies Collide:

Nobody on the panel seemed to be very concerned about Covid-19 (the coronavirus) and its potential longer-term market/economic ramifications. This makes me more concerned, since it’s pretty clear that most of the market is not pricing in much risk yet. The epidemic is a bigger risk today than it was two months ago, even as most asset prices and stocks have rallied meanwhile.

All the panelists laughed when I said I trusted bitcoin BTCUSD, +0.39%  more than any currency from a Chinese Communist Government. They still think bitcoin is a joke, and I’m pretty sure most of them haven’t done much work on it yet.

There are at least two good reasons to stick with bitcoin:

1. Everybody who lives in a country that’s not the U.S. is always subjected to devaluation of their country’s fiat currency at some point and these people continue to use bitcoin as a means of avoiding their nation’s currencies problems. Millions of people in Iraq, Venezuela, Mexico and even in China trust bitcoin more than their own countries’ currencies. I do too.

2. There have been hundreds of billions of dollars invested to make bitcoin safer and more easily distributed, exchanged, traded, etc. That’s still going on and there’s no other crypto that has anywhere that kind of critical mass. The last time people laughed at my analysis was when I presented Tesla TSLA, +8.21%  as a long idea at a hedge-fund conference in Vail, Colo. Subsequently, Tesla went up 300% in six months. I’m not saying bitcoin’s about to make that kind of a move anytime soon. But I’d suggest any serious economist and/or geopolitical analyst not totally dismiss bitcoin, or crypto or blockchain.

Here are a few questions from Revolution Investing subscribers with my detailed answers to each of them. Stay cautious out there, but stick with the good Revolutionary names we own.

Q. Cody, Gold US:GCH20  is breaking out huge the last few days ... is this another big up leg coming in precious metals?

A. I don’t have much of a feel for what gold will do near-term. The SPDR Gold Shares ETF GLD, -0.36%  has been a nice winner for us over the last year since we added it as a “hedge.” I put “hedge” in quotes there because both GLD and our generally long stocks positions have gone up at the same time.

Q. What do you think could be a general trading range for gold in 2020 (barring a swan of very dark color)?

A. Barring dark big birds, $1,500 to $1,700. If an unlit stately heavy-bodied aquatic bird with very long neck happens along, $2,000 could be possible.

Q. Cody, fire to the feet, will the next 5% move for the market be up or down?

A. The markets are down 2% from their highs a couple of days ago but those were all-time highs. I’ll go with the path of least resistance, with stocks headed lower, so there you go. U.S. stocks might muddle instead of rallying or declining. China and other markets are likely to see at least 5% drops before 5% pops in the near-term.

Q. Can you provide strike and month specifics for a new round of ETFs?

A.A. I’d probably look out one month and nibble puts 3%-5% out of the money in the SPDR S&P 500 ETF SPY, -0.53%, the iShares Russell 2000 ETF IWM, +0.46%, the iShares Expanded Tech-Software Sector ETF IGV, +0.98%, the VanEck Vectors Semiconductor ETF SMH, -1.15%  and/or the SPDR Dow Jones Industrial Average ETF DIA, -0.55%. Remember that these are hedges and aren’t outright directional bets that the markets are about to tank. Though they might!

Q. Last I saw your buy-sell range for bitcoin was $7,000 to $10,000. With bitcoin now near $10,000, again, are you more inclined to sell or hold here?

A. I’m bullish on bitcoin long-term and I’m going to increase my buy-sell range to $9,000 as the level I’d want to buy more and maybe $15,000 being the level I’d want to trim a little.

Q. Following up on bitcoin, do you think the coming halving event in May will serve as a catalyst for the short to medium term?

A. Not really, as I don’t think it matters compared with the long-term thesis of why I want to own bitcoin, summarized above.

Q. The share-price increase for Virgin Galctic Holdings SPCE, +2.20%  is through the roof, and it has gotten too big relative to my portfolio. Is it time to sell?

A. Trim, trim, trim. If you’re asking the question, the answer is yes, trim some more. I like SPCE for the long-term as a play on The Space Revolution — that’s why we bought it at $10 when its ticker was still IPOA. That said, it shouldn’t be the largest position in anybody’s portfolio.

Q. Cody ... any more cheap SPCE-type plays that can run up on speculation of this coming Space Revolution? lt looks like there are not too many out there.

A. Go back and read the two articles that I wrote back in September, which basically explained and predicted much of what’s going on. I’ve done a ton of working researching on the publicly and privately traded companies in the Space Revolution and have made the bets as outlined in those articles. I am starting to see some fake microcap penny-stock shell companies change their names to space-related garbage and they will likely get hyped at some point and then all go back to exactly $0 as every fake microcap penny-stock eventually does.

Anyway, we might short some of those at some point. And as new, real Space Revolution companies start coming public at multibillion-dollar market valuations in the next one to five years, I’ll be all over each of them for us. The countdown on all of this is on, just like I originally outlined six months ago, right before any of this started happening.

Q. Cody, variation on a theme, I only bought a little SPCE, as you had initially suggested to us. I added a bit at 11 and 17.5, have sold half of my shares, and it’s now 1.5%- 2% of my portfolio. Is there a price you would add back some?

A. I might look to buy back a little SPCE at like $25 or $20. Not in any rush.

Q. Cody: Straight from the mouth of “The Singularity Is Near,” here’s something similar. This is great, both to support what we know and maybe a name or two to look into. Not bad Ray, we’re already riding most of these. Again, the law of accelerating returns.

A. That’s an interesting article and yes, one that reads a lot like what I’ve written repeatedly in the past few years. Thanks for sharing.
