Tesla stock doesn’t need another catalyst, but it may have gotten one. Cybertruck orders have apparently cruised past half-a-million, according to multiple media reports that reference a Cybertruck enthusiast online forum. It is a big number.

The electric-vehicle pioneer didn’t respond to a request confirming the number of Cybertruck orders.

The news is another positive for a company seemingly awash in positives. Tesla (ticker: TSLA) stock is up almost 120% year to date, crushing comparable returns of the S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average. Investors are excited about better-than-expected earnings, increasing production capacity, and forthcoming models.

62: Tesla vs. the Minivan
Everyone loves to talk about electric cars. And, based on the success of Tesla, it seems like everyone wants to drive one. The strange thing is no one really wants to buy them. Less than 2% of the cars sold in the U.S. this year were electric. This week, Alex Eule talks to Barron's Jack Hough about whether - after years of false starts - we might finally be on the cusp of the electric car revolution. Produced by Mette Lützhøft.


SUBSCRIBE
The Cybertruck, with its avant-garde “cyberpunk” design, is one of those coming models. It was introduced in November 2019. The design was panned by Wall Street, but customers didn’t care. Tesla quickly racked up 200,000 orders.

Customers can reserve a spot in line for $100. Putting deposits down for a car or a truck is unusual, but the $100 figure is a pittance compared with the $50,000 deposit Tesla requires for its coming roadster.

The market for trucks, however, is far larger than the market for niche, albeit very cool, sports cars. American’s love their trucks. Ford Motor (F) sells roughly 900,000 F-series trucks each year. Dodge Ram models sell more than 500,000. General Motors ’ (GM) GMC and Chevy brands combined sell around 800,000 trucks a year.

The high volume is one reason offering an all-electric truck is a good idea for Tesla. The Cybertruck looks like it will sell well, but analysts and investors are likely more interested in the company’s coming Model Y vehicle, due to start shipping this year. It is a crossover-size, smaller version of the company’s Model X sport-utility vehicle.

Americans love crossovers, too. The Nissan (7201.Japan) Rogue, for instance, sells 300,000 to 400,000 units in the U.S. a year. And that’s only one popular crossover model. Analysts expect the Model Y to become Tesla’s best-selling model ever.

Tesla stock initially dipped after the debut of the Cybertruck. Shares were also down about $16, or 1.6%, Thursday morning. Cybertruck news doesn’t always move the Tesla-stock-needle. But bullish Tesla investors shouldn’t complain. The stock is up more than 400% from its 52-week lows. And with the stock up so much it is tough to directly correlate any short-term move with a single news item.

Tesla stock closed at a 52-week high, at more than $917, on Wednesday. Shares are trading for about 109 times estimated 2020 earnings and more than 63 times estimated 2021 earnings.
