Tesla is a step closer to building its “gigafactory” in Germany, Reuters reported Friday morning. The electric vehicle pioneer needs more manufacturing capacity in the coming years to meet the growing demand for its battery-powered cars, trucks and sport-utility vehicles.

Tesla (ticker: TSLA) previously disclosed its German facility and CEO Elon Musk referenced it on the company’s fourth-quarter call. When completed, Telsa will be building cars in the U.S., China and outside of Berlin. Tesla made manufacturing news in January—which moved the stock higher—by delivering Model 3 sedans built in Shanghai less than a year after breaking ground on the Chinese plant.

The company is facing some criticism over the plant’s potential environmental impact. Tesla, according to the Reuters report, will remove trees to build its new facility. The company, however, has committed to replanting an area three times the size of the Berlin factory footprint.

Before Shanghai, all Tesla cars were built in Fremont, Calif., at a plant once owned by General Motors (GM) and Toyota Motors (TM). That so-called NUMMI plant made about 400,000 cars a year at peak production. Tesla also has a vehicle finishing facility in the Netherlands, but that location doesn’t assemble cars from scratch.

Racing Higher
Tesla Stock Versus the Market Over the Past Three Months
Source: FactSet
%
Tesla Inc.
S&P 500 Index
Nov. 25
Dec. 9
Dec. 23
Jan. 6
Jan. 20
Feb. 3
Feb. 17
-50
0
50
100
150
200
New Street Research analyst Pierre Ferragu expects Tesla’s European full manufacturing capacity to come online over the next couple of years. The company is targeting 2021. Ferragu expects total Tesla manufacturing capacity to hit 2 million units by 2025. Tesla delivered about 370,000 cars in 2019. Ferragu, a long time Tesla bull, recently downgraded the stock to Hold. Still, he has one of the highest price targets on the Street at $800 a share.

That’s below recent trading levels, but it can be hard for even bullish investors to keep up with Tesla stock. Over the past three months, shares have soared more than 150%, crushing comparable gains of the Dow Jones Industrial Average and S&P 500 over the same span.

Manufacturing capacity doesn’t always make the news but it should in the case of high growth companies. It looks as if Tesla is doing its work, laying the groundwork for higher volumes in years to come. That’s something bullish investors will likely cheer.

Tesla stock was down about $4, or 0.4%, in Friday premarket trading, hitting about $895 per share
