Tesla stock closed at $887.06, up another 14% on Tuesday. That jump follows Monday’s epic 20% rise in shares of the maker of electric cars. Analysts, investors, and traders are scrambling to explain the violence of the rally, which has Tesla stock up more than 110% year to date, crushing comparable gains of the S&P 500.

Falling battery costs, better cash flow, rising Wall Street earnings estimates are all legitimate reasons for a rise in Tesla stock (ticker: TSLA). But do any of the reasons justify a 2020 double? Probably not. That leaves investors with the short-squeeze explanation.

To go short, bearish investors borrow shares and then sell them to bet on price declines. Tesla stock remains heavily shorted. Data analytics provider S3 estimates that many bears have been covering short bets, which means they are buying Tesla stock in order to replace the shares they borrowed to sell. But about 18% of shares available for trading are still sold short. That’s many times the average short interest for stock in the Dow Jones Industrial Average.

When stock rises go parabolic, like Tesla in 2020, losses for shorts spiral out of control, creating the proverbial widow-maker trade. That’s industry parlance for a trade that goes so bad, so quickly that it threatens careers and even the existence of entire funds.

The fate of hedge fund Amaranth is an example of this dynamic. It closed down shortly after energy trader, 32-year-old Brian Hunter, lost about $5 billion in a week on natural-gas futures. That was in 2006. The losses were only half of the problem. Once a fund loses that much that quickly investors want their money back.

Another epic short squeeze created that kind of risk for funds and analysts involving another automotive giant. This time in 2008. Back then, hedge funds had zeroed in on stock in Volkswagen (VOW.Germany). Shares were trading at about 16 times estimated earnings. Not a huge valuation multiple. Tesla stock, for example, trade for about 107 times estimated 2020 earnings. But the multiple was high for a traditional automotive firm. What’s more, the economy was looking shaky. This was, after all, around the financial crisis.

Volkswagen shares rose more than 300% over the span of a couple of days in October 2008. The stock rose more than 600% from levels that prevailed before the unexpected rally gained steam. It was a breathtaking run. Tesla stock is “only” up about 230% from recent levels.

The catalyst for the Volkswagen stock run was a complicated takeover attempt by Porsche. A minnow tried to sneak up and swallow a whale. Porsche was, and is, a far smaller automaker than Volkswagen, but the two companies had, and have, a relationship. Porsche owned VW stock and some of its management served on VW’s board of directors. They board ties are one reason the market was shocked by an announcement that the sports car maker amassed more than 40% in VW stock and another 30-plus percent via call options.

A call option is the right to buy shares at a fixed price. When a broker sells a stock option to any investor, it doesn’t want the risk associated with a stock going up. Selling a call is akin to shorting shares. A broker only wants to make money transacting in options. In some cases, the broker has to buy shares to hedge the options transaction. That way if the stock rises and options are exercised the broker can simply give the stock to the entity exercising the call.

With more than 70% of Volkswagen stock controlled by Porsche, short sellers realized there was nothing available to cover bearish bets. There was no stock float. All, or most, of Volkswagen shares were accounted for. The door shorts had to run through to exit their position turned out to be microscopic.

Hedge funds were unhappy board members were buying options. They sued Porsche executives, but were unsuccessful.

Volkswagen stock did come back to earth, falling almost 60% from the peak in a matter of days. But many funds lost billions, being forced to cover because of fear or because of margin requirements, or both. Don’t forget, if stock positions are leveraged, meaning if there is more exposure than total assets under management, funds have to put up margin, or a portion of the position size, as values change. When a stock rises rapidly the amount of margin required can be problematic. That, in one sense, is the essence of a liquidity squeeze.

Leverage kills. That’s another thing Wall Street traders say. It’s the reason for the widow-maker designation.

For 2020 Tesla bears, the short squeeze shouldn’t get as bad as Volkswagen in 2008. There is probably no Porsche in the shadows. And for 2020 Tesla bulls, they should be wary of a fall after the short squeeze ends. That doesn’t mean Tesla isn’t doing well. It means that parabolic stock moves usually experience some level of mean reversion.

In the case of Porsche, Volkswagen ended up acquiring the company in 2012 after buying almost 50% in 2009. Porsche, effectively, needed a bailout after it ran into margin trouble during the financial crisis. Go figure.
