Canaccord analyst Jed Dorsheimer downgraded Tesla shares from the equivalent of Buy to Hold following a two-day rally that sent shares up almost 50% at the peak of trading Tuesday. Only roughly one in five of the analysts that track the stock now rate it at Buy.

“Given the 3,000 per week China Model 3 production expectations in a country that remains on lock down, we feel a reset of expectations [in the first quarter] is likely and thus needs to be reflected in the valuation,” wrote Dorsheimer in a Wednesday research report.

The Chinese coronavirus outbreak, of course, is a concern for investors. Tesla (ticker: TSLA) shares are down about $105, or 12%, after reports the company would delay reporting Chinese delivery numbers.

Dorsheimer isn’t the first bullish analyst to recommend profit-taking. Baird analyst Ben Kallo downgraded shares from the equivalent of Buy to Hold early in January, though he lamented that decision after Tesla (ticker: TSLA) reported better-than-expected fourth-quarter numbers at the end of the month.

Another bull, with the highest target price for the stock on Wall Street—Pierre Ferragu from New Street Research—also recently downgraded shares to the equivalent of Hold from Buy. He believes in the company: His downgrade was an acknowledgment that shares had quadrupled from their lows in June.

Most of the numbers about Tesla’s epic run, such as the quadrupling, are well known by now. Shares are up more than 110% year to date, crushing comparable gains of the Dow Jones Industrial Average and the S&P 500. Tesla is now the world’s second-most valuable car company, trailing behind only Toyota Motor (TM)

Some other, more obscure, numbers about the rally are eye-popping as well. Tesla’s implied volatility is at record highs. Implied volatility is a figure derived from stock-option prices that tells traders, very roughly, how much a stock is expected to fluctuate over the coming year. Traders, perhaps obviously, expect Tesla shares to swing wildly for now.

Out-of-the-money put options rose in value Tuesday, while the stock rose another 13%, at one point hitting almost $970 a share. A put option is the right to sell a stock at a certain price in the future. Put options usually drop in value as a stock rises. It’s less likely the right to sell at any given price will be worth something when a stock is getting more valuable. But volatility is another portion of options-pricing models. The put-option pricing change is just another data point showing how unusual the Tesla rally is.
