Albemarle isn’t a household name. But shares have risen in sympathy with Tesla stock. The two firms are linked. Not by any explicit supply agreement or joint venture, but by lithium, a key component in rechargeable batteries, including the kind that power electric vehicles, like the one’s Tesla makes. And just like Tesla, the Albemarle stock rally may have gone a little too far.

Baird analyst Ben Kallo downgraded Albemarle stock (ticker: ALB) to the equivalent of Hold from Buy Wednesday morning.

Albemarle is a mining/chemical company that is the number one global producer of lithium. And demand for that metal is growing as the the global fleet of electric vehicles grows. Investors are feeling far more optimistic about the outlook for EVs after a couple quarters of better-than-expected earnings from Tesla (TSLA).

The earnings news, of course, has pushed Tesla stock to record levels, and the acceleration is eye-popping. Tesla stock is is up about 400% off its 52-week lows. What’s more, Tesla stock has rallied almost 180% over the past three months. It’s been an incredible ride for shareholders.

If it weren’t for Tesla, Albemarle’s gains might also qualify as eye-popping, too. But relative to Tesla’s stock surge, Albemarle’s gains look pedestrian. Still, Albemarle stock is up about 24% year to date, and 34% over the past three months. That isn’t so bad. The S&P 500 is up about 2% year to date.

“Shares have traded higher in conjunction with Tesla’s stock move and a renewed investor interest in electric vehicles,” wrote Kallo in a Wednesday research report. “While we remain constructive on long-term trends, we think near term risk/reward is now more balanced.” Kallo actually raised his price target when downgrading shares by $10, to $100 a share, about 11% higher than recent levels.

The downgrade wasn’t all about the recent stock run. Albemarle does more than just lithium for EVs. Kallo believes the company’s chemical catalyst business and bromine division could be hurt by China’s coronavirus outbreak and a slowing industrial economy.

Bromine is a flame retardant.

The recent run has left Albemarle stock trading for about 18 times estimated 2020 earnings, a little higher than peers, but not a huge premium to the overall stock market. The stock yields about 1.6% and the company is a member of the S&P 500 dividend aristocrats index. That index is reserved for companies that have increased dividends fro 25 straight years. It’s an impressive feat, and one reason a market-like multiple for the stock doesn’t look unreasonable.

Kallo isn’t alone in his caution. About 43% of analyst covering the company rate Albemarle stock at Buy or the equivalent, roughly 12 percentage points below the average Buy rating-ratio for stocks in the Dow Jones Industrial Average. What’s more the stock has seen a few downgrades in recent months as shares have rallied.

Albemarle stock is down 4.4% to $86.49 in Wednesday morning trading, while Tesla stock is down 14.8% to $755.65.

Albemarle reports fourth-quarter earnings after the market closes on Feb. 19. A conference call follows on Feb. 20 at 9 a.m. ET.
