Stocks are set to bounce back after a brutal, coronavirus-linked selloff on Monday.

Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index was up 0.3%, after spending much of the trading session in the red. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index, however, was down again, dropping 0.7% in Tuesday trading.

U.S. stock futures, though, are in the green. Dow Jones Industrial Average and S&P 500 futures rose 0.3%. Nasdaq Composite futures were up 0.5%.

The market is one day removed from news the coronavirus has spread into Italy. And a little less fear about the virus, or a little more time to digest the latest news, could allow investors to focus on other things Tuesday—such as earnings.

Disappointing results have Shake Shack (SHAK) stock off 13% in premarket trading. Same-store sales, reported late Monday, came up short ofwhat Wall Street expected.

Earnings also dinged Palo Alto Networks (PANW) stock. The profits were OK, beating Wall Street estimates, but sales missed expectations and the company’s forecasts for sales and earnings for the current quarter were lower than anticipated. Shares are down about 15.7% in premarket trading.

Four brokerage firms downgraded Palo Alto shares following the earnings news.

Mallinckrodt (MNK) stock is having a better morning. The shares are up 38% in premarket trading after the company reported fourth- quarter numbers. Sales and earnings met expectations, but the company also announced details of an opioid settlement.

Tesla (TSLA) stock is moving Tuesday, too—albeit in a surprising direction. The stock caught another Wall Street downgrade, this time from a longtime bull, Jefferies analyst Philippe Houchois. He downgraded shares from the equivalent of Buy to Hold. His price target, however, rose 33% from $600 to $800 a share.

The downgrade isn’t having much impact in premarket trading. Tesla shares are up about 2%.

Fewer than one in five of the 30-plus analysts covering the electric- vehicle pioneer rate shares at Buy. That is the lowest percentage of any point in the past five years. Still the shares are on a tear, up about 100% year to date.

Chinese electric vehicle company Nio (NIO) shares are moving too, up almost 27% in premarket trading. Earnings didn’t do it. Instead, the company announced an agreement with the Hefei municipal government to support the company’s growth.

U.S. brokerage firm Bernstein upgraded the shares as well.
