Animal-Care Provider Zoetis and 6 More Companies Are Raising Dividends

The year is nearly over, but there were plenty of dividend announcements last week.

Money manager Franklin Resources, medical firm Abbott Laboratories and animal health company Zoetis were among the companies that declared dividend increases.

Franklin Resources (ticker: BEN), based in San Mateo, Calif., rewarded shareholders when it declared a quarterly dividend of 27 cents a share, up nearly 4% from 26 cents. However, the stock, which yields 4.2%, is down about 10% this year.

Like other companies that focus on active portfolio management, Franklin has been challenged with the surge of passive management, notably index funds. The firm announced that as of Nov. 30, its assets under management dropped slightly to $691.3 billion over the previous month as net outflows offset market gains of the funds’ underlying holdings.

In other news, the board of Abbott Laboratories (ABT) declared a 12.5% boost to the quarterly dividend—bringing it to 36 cents a share. The company sells a wide range of medical products and is a member of the S&P 500 Dividend Aristocrats Index, which is exclusive to companies that have increased their annual dividend consecutively for a minimum of 25 years. Abbott has done so for 48 straight years. Abbott’s stock, which yields, 1.5%, is up 21% in the past 12 months.

Zoetis (ZTS), which was spun off from Pfizer (PFE) in 2013, plans to hike its quarterly dividend to 20 cents a share, compared with 16 cents currently. That’s an increase of 22%.

The company develops products for pets and livestock. The pet business is growing a lot faster than the livestock unit is. The stock, which yields 0.6%, has a one-year return of about 38%.

AES Corp. (AES), which generates and distributes electric power in 14 different countries, declared a quarterly dividend of 14.33 cents per common share. That’s a 5% increase from their prior dividend of 13.65 cents.

The company has consistently grown its dividend annually since 2012. It now yields 3% and boasts a one-year return of about 24%.

Mid-America Apartment Communities (MAA), a real-estate investment trust, will raise its quarterly dividend to $1 per share, about a 4% boost from 96 cents. The increase marks 10 consecutive years of dividend increases for the firm, which is based in Germantown, Tenn.

It’s one of the few to do so in spite of the 2008 housing crisis. Their portfolio consists of apartments throughout the southeast, southwest and mid-Atlantic regions of the U.S.

Also planning to boost its quarterly dividend is biotech firm Amgen (AMGN). It declared a quarterly dividend of $1.60 a share, up 10% from $1.45. The stock, which yields 2.7%, has a one-year return of about 24%. Its products include Enbrel, which is used to treat rheumatoid arthritis and other conditions.

Fortune Brands Home & Security (FBHS) plans to raise its dividend to 24 cents, up 2 cents, or 9%. The stock, whose one-year return is about 62%, yields 1.5%.