Merck stock is trading higher as investors welcome news that like its rival Pfizer, the drugmaker earned more than expected in the third quarter, and raised its financial forecasts. The pair of upbeat results could raise hope about Big Pharma’s prospects even as politicians focus on health-care costs ahead of the 2020 election.

The back story. Merck shares (ticker: MRK) are up 7.6% year to date, far less than the S&P 500, but it isn’t a bad showing. This has been a difficult year for health care and pharmaceutical stocks, given growing concerns with the political climate. Drug prices and the seemingly ever-increasing cost of health care are shaping up to be major issues in the coming 2020 presidential election.

Still, Merck has held its own, with its previous earnings report leading to share gains. The company hosted  its first investor day in five years this summer, while its blockbuster cancer drug Keytruda has been a victory for the firm, as it wins approval for the treatment in many new markets. Analysts have praised the cancer franchise, along with other growth opportunities. Some say the stock looks cheap.

What’s new. Before the bell Tuesday, Merck said it earned $1.51 a share from revenue of $12.4 billion. Analysts were looking for EPS of $1.23 and revenue of $11.59 billion.

For the full year, Merck said it expects to earn between $5.12 and $5.17 a share, up from a previous estimate of $4.84 to $4.94, and comfortably ahead of the $4.97 per-share consensus estimate. Management foresees revenue of $46.5 billion to $47 billion, up from its previous range of $45.2 billion to $46.2 billion—analysts expected revenue of $45.88 billion before the company revised its call.

Looking ahead. Merck delivered a strong quarter, and a similarly upbeat result from peer Pfizer (PFE), also out this morning, may be lifting investors’ moods. Merck did benefit from a lower tax rate, but figures were fairly strong across the board. Keytruda sales jumped 64% in the quarter, excluding the impact of currency, while human-health vaccine sales climbed 18%.

The company’s increased guidance will likely also soothe some investors’ worries. While the news and comments from presidential candidates have prominently featured health-care costs in the U.S. in recent months, results from both Merck and Pfizer show that Big Pharma can navigate the current environment and that management sees reason for optimism.

Merck was up 2.3% to $84.01 in morning trading, while Pfizer was 3.7% higher at $38.67.