Alibaba Raised $13 Billion in a Secondary Offering Last Week
Tomorrow, those new shares will start trading on the Hong Kong stock exchange.

The China e-commerce giant’s stock sale was the largest of 2019. Alibaba (ticker: BABA) has traded on the New York Stock Exchange since 2014.

There was strong demand for the offering, which in and of itself is big news. Despite the protests and violence in Hong Kong, worries about slowing Chinese growth and the ongoing U.S.-China trade war, investors are ready to bet on China’s largest internet retailer.

This year, 29 of the Dow Jones Industrial Average’s 30 stocks have returned more than Pfizer
In other words, Pfizer (PFE) is the worst stock in the Dow.

What’s wrong with the drug-maker? Well, for years, Pfizer made money not just from prescription drugs, but big consumer brands like Listerine mouthwash and Trident gum. As well as over-the-counter products like Rogaine, Zantac and Rolaids. But Pfizer sold all of that—and it also plans to spin-out its division that sells old, off-patent drugs like Viagra.

What’s left? A drug company that will sink or swim entirely on new drugs it either creates or buys. And so far, investors don’t seem to have much faith that Pfizer can deliver. The investment risk is huge – a bit like climbing without a rope – but if it works, the payoff could be massive.

The Size of the Chinese Vaping Market Was $750 Million
—last year. Vaporized nicotine products have been booming in China. With its huge population and high smoking rates, the potential market is massive.

There’s a catch, though: the Chinese government. State-owned media has started to incessantly hit out at the dangers of vaping. That’s according to the New York Times.

And the government will soon require all vaping manufacturers to meet national standards for both manufacturing and ingredients. On top of that comes safety tests, dosage and ingredient labels, as well as health warnings. That type of heavy regulation would be another setback for the growing industry. It has already seen demand drop as U.S. states have cut down on flavored vape products.