The S&P 500 Is Stocks’ Modern Benchmark. But the Old-Fashioned Dow Has Beat It Over the Past 5 Years.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average is 6 percentage points behind the S&P 500 index so far this year, but the often-maligned Dow is ahead during the past five years and lags only a little in the last 10.

That is pretty impressive for the 30-stock market benchmark, which dates back to the century before last and lacks marquee technology stocks like Alphabet (ticker: GOOG), Amazon.com (AMZN), and Facebook (FB). It is still calculated in an old-fashioned way, by adding up the share prices of its individual components.

“Yes, the methodology is different with the Dow, and there are different component weightings relative to the S&P 500,” says Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst at S&P Dow Jones Indices, a division of S&P Global (SPGI) that owns both benchmarks. “But the Dow tracks very well against the S&P 500 over longer time periods, even though they can vary over the shorter term.”

The Dow remains popular with individuals because of its recognizable components, some of the best-known names on the U.S. corporate landscape. And for many, it remains synonymous with the stock market even though the S&P 500 has long been the benchmark for professional investors.

In calculating the Dow industrials’ value, the share prices of the 30 Dow components are summed and then divided by roughly 0.147 (a figure known as the Dow divisor) to arrive at the index’s value, which is now 28239.28, down about 28 points in Wednesday’s session. Each $1 change in the share price of a Dow component moves the index by about 6.8 points.

The Dow industrials returned 24%, including dividends, year to date through Wednesday, against a return of 29.8% for the S&P 500. Over the last five years, however, the Dow is ahead of the S&P 500 with a 12.4% annualized total return, versus 11.4% for the S&P. During the past decade, the S&P 500 has edged out the Dow, 13.5% to 13.4% in annualized returns.

Most active managers’ performances haven’t kept up with the S&P 500 in the past five years. Nor have the marquee midcap stock index, the S&P 400 Mid Cap index, or the mostly closely followed small-cap benchmark, the Russell 2000. Investors can play the Dow through the SPDR Dow Jones Industrial Average ETF Trust (DIA), an exchange-traded fund now trading around $283.

The Dow industrials, which took their current form in 1896, are dominated by high-priced components. Boeing (BA), which trades at $330.68, has the loftiest price and therefore the most influence on the index—more than eight times that of the lowest-priced stock, Pfizer (PFE), which trades at $38.89. Other influential stocks in the Dow include Apple (AAPL) at $279.74; UnitedHealth Group (UNH), at $292.90; Goldman Sachs Group (GS), at $230.45; and Home Depot (HD), at $218.

As a practical matter, the top 15 or 20 highest-priced stocks drive the index. Lower-priced Pfizer, Coca-Cola (KO), Cisco Systems (CSCO), and even Exxon Mobil (XOM) have little impact. Boeing has an 8% weighting in the Dow while Pfizer’s is less than 1%.

Boeing’s strength boosted the Dow in 2017 and 2018, when it bested the S&P 500. The aerospace company’s recent weakness has weighed on the blue-chip index and contributed to its lagging performance versus the S&P 500 this year.

The Dow industrials have been criticized for failing to adapt to the times and the new economy, as well as maintaining an old-style price weighting that reflects the pen-and-ink era in which it began. The S&P 500 and most other major indexes are weighted by the market value of their components, with Apple, Microsoft, Alphabet and Amazon.com having the most impact on the S&P 500.

It would be tough under the current rules for S&P Dow Jones Indices, the guardian of the Dow, to include Alphabet or Amazon because their high stock prices would overwhelm the index. Alphabet trades at $1,351.91 and Amazon at $1,784.03. It’s conceivable that either stock could be added with a fractional share (such as ¼ of their stock price) but S&P Dow Jones Indices has been reluctant to do that.

The decision to add Walgreens Boots Alliance (WBA) to the Dow industrials in 2018 doesn’t look like a great move, either in terms of capturing trends in the broader economy, or in terms of performance. Barron’s argued at the time that the index’s guardians had missed an opportunity to add a new-economy company such as Facebook.

The stock is the worst performer in the index this year, with a 16% drop. Walgreens replaced General Electric (GE), which had been the only original component in the Dow when it was booted. This year, Dow (DOW) came into the Dow industrials after the breakup of former component DowDuPont.

Technology represents about 20% of the Dow, only slightly below the level in the S&P, but older tech companies like International Business Machines (IBM), Cisco, and Intel (INTC), which have lagged behind the tech sector in recent years, play a bigger role in the Dow.

Over the long haul, the Dow industrials have delivered. Since the end of 1919, the index has gone from 107 to a recent 28,235, a price return of 5.7% annually and a total return (including dividends) of 9.2% annually. The numbers are according to a calculation posted on Twitter this week by investor Mario Gabelli, the CEO and founder of Gamco Investors (GBL) and a member of the Barron’s Roundtable.

