Pfizer Is the Dow’s Worst Stock. A New Strategy Makes It Worth Another Look.

In the early 2000s, a share of Pfizer bought space on nearly every shelf of a drugstore.

The company sold prescription drugs, of course: your Zoloft, your Viagra, your Lipitor. But then there was Trident chewing gum, Listerine mouthwash, and Zantac heartburn pills; Rogaine for bald spots, Rolaids for indigestion, Lubriderm for dry skin, and Zyrtec to plug a runny nose; plus Halls and Dentyne Ice; Schick razors and dog medicine.

Over the past two decades, Pfizer (ticker: PFE) has been steadily shedding those businesses. Now, it is taking its most radical step yet: In two deals announced in the last 12 months, the company will be getting rid of its last consumer brands, including Advil and ChapStick, and spinning off a division that sells off-patent throwback hits like Viagra.

It will be Pfizer’s final break with a business model of many decades, as the company commits itself to living almost entirely off new drugs that it can build or buy.

While the strategic shift provides a sharper focus and a platform for faster growth, there are risks. The off-patent division, Upjohn, and the consumer brands together contributed about 30% of the company’s revenue in the first quarter of this year.

And investors have yet to be persuaded. Pfizer lost $28 billion in market capitalization in the week after it announced the Upjohn deal, in which the spinoff will merge with the disfavored generic-drug company Mylan (MYL) to create one of the biggest makers of generic drugs in the world, to be called Viatris. Pfizer shares, recently trading at $37.74, are down 14% in 2019, the worst year-to-date showing in the Dow Jones Industrial Average. Indeed, Pfizer has lagged behind for decades, returning about 80% since 1999, behind the S&P 500 index’s 276% return over that period.



But for investors willing to swallow some risk, Pfizer stock now looks attractive.

Pfizer has traded at an average of 13.6 times projected earnings over the past five years, below peers like Johnson & Johnson (JNJ), Eli Lilly (LLY), and Merck (MRK). With a smaller revenue base, Pfizer management says that it can increase sales by 6% a year over the next five years.

The current share price of Pfizer includes about $2.50 worth of the spinoff company, suggesting that the market values the remaining company at around 15.5 to 16 times 2020 earnings—in line with higher-growth pharmaceutical companies like Novartis (NVS) and Merck, and above Pfizer peers like Bristol-Myers Squibb (BMY) and Roche (ROG.Switzerland).

Still, the promised growth counts on Pfizer making big scientific leaps, and big scientific leaps are a tall order.

Wall Street investors worry that developing blockbuster drugs that can bring in millions of dollars in sales a year is more difficult than it used to be.

“A lot of the biggest areas have already been addressed,” says Jeff Jonas, a portfolio manager at Gabelli Funds. Drugs for lesser diseases can have trouble hitting big enough sales levels to make a difference at a place as large as Pfizer. “That just naturally is harder to get to the billion-dollar level.”

One worrier is Albert Bourla, the Greek veterinarian and longtime Pfizer executive now leading the change at the company. “The old model of pharmaceuticals that was based on blockbusters, physicians’ preference, or incremental innovation is turning now upside down,” he said on a panel two years ago. “The change is coming, and nobody knows how it [will look].”

Bourla, who became CEO in January, is gambling that he can make the blockbuster model work essentially as Pfizer’s exclusive revenue stream.

The dog medicine, the razors, and the Rogaine offered a kind of safety net that made Pfizer the sort of steady, blue-chip stock with a respectable 3.8% yield that investors held to pass on to their grandchildren. Upjohn, plus Advil and ChapStick and the other consumer brands, were the last iteration of that safety net.

For investors, the question is whether they believe the company is capable of making the ascent without a harness.

The best microscopes in Pfizer’s optical microscopy lab at Kendall Square in Cambridge, Mass., are in the back room—a black-walled holy of holies jammed with Pfizer-won’t-say-how-many-millions of dollars’ worth of high-end magnifiers.

One of the devices can show cells moving in real time. Another can take images of a mouse’s internal organs spread out on a plate like a TV dinner. A third can take a two-millimeter slice of a blueberry-size mouse brain and, in the hands of Shoh Asano, the MIT Media Lab veteran at the controls, turn it into a rotating 3-D multicolored visualization.

“This is pretty much on the forefront of what microscopy has to offer,” Asano says.

Kendall Square in Cambridge is to biotech what Oxford University is to British prime ministers. Most of the biotech firms you’ve heard of—Biogen Pharmaceuticals, Alnylam, bluebird bio, Amgen, Sarepta Therapeutics, Moderna—spent time there, plus plenty of others you haven’t heard of.

Around a decade ago, Pfizer decided that it wanted to sit with the cool kids, so in 2014 it moved some operations from its old labs in Groton, Conn., and some from a remote corner of Cambridge, into two buildings just off Main Street. The labs, by virtue of belonging to a company with a market capitalization of more than $200 billion, are a show of force in Cambridge; full of high-end toys, like the very expensive microscope room, that small biotechs can’t afford.

The labs are also the keystone of a near-decadelong effort by Pfizer to rebuild the research-and-development operation under the guidance of its Swedish chief scientific officer, Mikael Dolsten. Under Dolsten, Pfizer reorganized its research division, leapt into gene therapy, and shut down its neuroscience R&D program.

The idea, roughly, was to make Pfizer work a bit more like its Cambridge neighbors.

“Dolsten wants them to look like a biotech,” says Sandy Macrae, the president and CEO of the small-cap biotech Sangamo Therapeutics (SGMO), which is working with Pfizer on a gene therapy to treat hemophilia A.

Dolsten says Pfizer devolves much of its research-side decision-making to disease-area-focused units that operate like virtual biotechs within the company.

“Most of the decisions in terms of direction, investments, are made at that level,” says Seng Cheng, chief scientific officer of the company’s rare-disease unit. “We’re almost operating as a pseudo biotech company.”

The strategy is meant to allow Pfizer to move more quickly. “We looked at how do we, early in the scientific phase, pick the winners and abandon the losers,” Dolsten says. “We’re trying to keep the momentum of a small company by empowering colleagues.”

But for a leviathan like Pfizer, with $50 billion in annual revenue—more than twice as much as the largest biotechs—thinking like a marlin is a big ask.

“It’s a little bit more bureaucratic, for sure, because there’s reporting and governance that is part of the process of Big Pharma, but by and large, I see very little difference in that regard,” says Cheng, who was an executive at the biotech company Genzyme before and after it was acquired by the French pharmaceutical giant Sanofi in 2011. Still, he says, “the agility is a little less.”

One signal of the limitations of Pfizer’s R&D culture came in June, when the company offered $11.4 billion to buy Array BioPharma, a biotech company developing cancer drugs. Pfizer merged parts of the company into pre-existing Pfizer teams. But it kept Array’s Colorado research lab separate, walling it off from the rest of Pfizer R&D. That unit now reports directly to Dolsten.

Asked if he is protecting Array from Pfizer, or Pfizer from Array, Dolsten sidesteps. “We’re trying to bring the best from the two organizations,” he says.

There are few better illustrations of how hard it is for even the best-capitalized research departments to come up with a steady pipeline of new billion-dollar drugs than Pfizer’s own recent history.

This June, Pfizer’s U.S. patent on Lyrica, a nerve-pain blockbuster, expired. That’s a normal development in the pharmaceutical business. Drug companies can have at least a dozen years when they have exclusive rights to sell their own branded products.

But after the Lyrica patent expiration, Pfizer isn’t losing exclusivity on any of its big drugs until 2026.

Six years without a patent expiration might sound like good news. It is, however, indicative of a serious problem for Pfizer, one that throws a shadow over the company’s effort to reinvent itself as an innovative biopharma pure play. That’s because under normal circumstances, when a drug company is producing a steady stream of new products, expirations should come on a regular basis.

In Pfizer’s case, they’re all coming at once.

“It’s not a good thing for a company not to have [losses of exclusivity], because this is an indication that your R&D 15 years back was not successful,” CEO Bourla admits in an interview with Barron’s. “For six years we are not losing patents for anything means that for six years we didn’t launch anything.”

Pfizer’s R&D operations stretch from La Jolla in Southern California to Sandwich in southeast England and are expected to cost as much as $8.3 billion this year. Pfizer’s defining institutional genius, however, has been its commercial operation, not its science side.

“If you look at Pfizer, they’ve historically really struggled in terms of innovation,” says J.P. Morgan analyst Christopher Schott.

The R&D dry spell responsible for the gap in patent expirations started in the late 1990s and ran through much of the 2000s.

This time, Pfizer can’t afford to miss. When the patent expirations resume, they come back with a vengeance. From 2026 to 2029, the company will lose exclusive rights to five major drugs. Schott projects that the company will lose $3 billion in sales in 2026 due to patent expirations, $6.1 billion in 2027, and $4.7 billion in 2028. As that revenue falls away, the company will have no generic-drug division, and no consumer health-care unit, to cushion its landing.

Other drug companies face worrying patent expirations, but Pfizer’s is particularly stark.

Buying up other companies and bringing their promising late-stage experimental drugs to market is also an important part of Pfizer’s strategy. On the third-quarter earnings call, Bourla said that he wasn’t interested in large-scale acquisitions, but would seek companies with drugs in Phase 2 or Phase 3 trials.

Whether building or buying, Pfizer needs to come up with a handful drugs that can earn a billion dollars a year by the middle of the next decade. Whether Pfizer can do it is the question on which the stock rests.

In the second quarter, Upjohn’s revenue fell 20% in China, after authorities there started a new procurement program for generic drugs that put significant pricing pressures on the multinational pharmaceutical players.

All at once, Pfizer’s cushion was looking a lot less cushy.

In the Pipeline
Here are some of Pfizer’s potential drug blockbusters that could come to market in the next five years

Bourla denies that the significant revenue hit that the division took drove his decision to cut it loose this year. He says that the company had expected challenges to the business in China for years, and that he had set up Upjohn as a semi-independent unit within Pfizer in anticipation of that very issue.

“I created Upjohn so that I can provide the focus to address those challenges and exploit the opportunities,” he says

He called Mylan to make the deal, he says, because Upjohn seemed like it could benefit from the linkage to Mylan’s pipeline.

It is hard not to wonder, though, if the collapse of the China revenues pushed up the timing of the Upjohn spinoff. Pfizer is expecting a significant number of drug study results that are important to ensuring that the company can fill the revenue hole opening with the 2026 product expirations.

The biggest item in Pfizer’s late-stage pipeline is Ibrance, its breast-cancer drug, which already has approval in metastatic breast cancer. Sometime next year, the company will unveil data on a study of the drug being used as a so-called adjuvant therapy, delivered on a continuing basis to early-stage breast cancer patients.

The adjuvant market is far larger than the metastatic market, and the commercial potential for the indication is tremendous. David Risinger at Morgan Stanley projects that adjuvant sales alone of Ibrance could hit $4 billion by 2023 if it receives approval from the Food and Drug Administration.

“If Ibrance adjuvant surprisingly disappoints next year…that would represent a significant disappointment,” he says.

Other question marks also remain. Pfizer is working on gene therapies for hemophilia A, hemophilia B, Wilson’s disease, and Duchenne muscular dystrophy; a range of anti-inflammatory drugs, and cancer therapies. The company is also developing biosimilars, the complex replicas of off-patent biological drugs, and will continue to sell injectable and anti-infective drugs for hospitals.

Bourla says that the pipeline risk is relative. “It’s never safe in this business,” he says. Still, the company has built in plenty of room for the science to be hard, he adds.

“When we say we’re going to grow 6%, we’re not assuming that everything will be successful,” Bourla says. “If everything is successful, we grow 12%, right?”

All the R&D in the world is worth something to investors only if the company can make the money back when it sells the drugs. One critical piece of the blockbuster model has been regular price boosts over the patent life of a drug. But Pfizer, as well as the rest of the industry, have been facing increasing pressure over their pricing models.

In October, the Institute for Clinical and Economic Review, a nonprofit drug-pricing watchdog, called out Pfizer for increasing the wholesale acquisition cost of Lyrica by 28.3% over two years, without justifying the increase with any new clinical evidence. The group said the price increase cost the health-care system $688 million, the second-largest cost incurred by a drug’s unsupported price bump during that period.

Pfizer responded that the institute’s report contained “methodological limitations” and did not reflect the full value that Lyrica brings to patients.

Nonetheless, price increases like these have roused popular anger in recent years, leading to a wave of proposals aimed at the practice. But experts say that legislation limiting the power of drug companies to set prices they want is not necessarily likely to pass.

“The pharmaceutical industry is spending millions of dollars lobbying against many, if not all, of these proposals, and they have a pretty good track record so far of batting down policy ideas that aren’t to their liking,” says Juliette Cubanski, associate director of the program on Medicare policy at the Kaiser Family Foundation.

Even if limits on price increases do pass, most legislative proposals currently being considered would not have a way to limit the initial prices of the drugs. Either way, the limit on the blockbuster model is unlikely to come from Washington. Bourla says that the change he is talking about is a shift from mega-blockbusters like Lipitor, to blockbusters that sell a few million dollars of product a year.

“There are some, like Ibrance, that will be much bigger, but there are some that will be much smaller,” he says. “This is, I think, the model of the future.”

More important to Pfizer now than mega-blockbusters are drugs that would be the first to address a particular condition. That mirrors the broader shift in the industry toward rare-disease treatments, which benefit small populations but can command high prices.

“In the past, all you needed was commercial capabilities and to register products,” Bourla says. “If you were very good commercially and you have a registered product, you could do miracles. All of this is over. Now, you need substantial, breakthrough science to be able to make a commercial success.”

Pfizer’s drug-development capabilities have clearly been on the upswing under Dolsten. The question is whether it will all be good enough, soon enough.

“The opportunity of creating a pure-play biopharma is, if the pipeline works, you’re going to be growing a whole lot faster,” J.P. Morgan’s Schott says. “If this pipeline doesn’t quite work out, you’ve got a much higher multiple to justify, and you’ve got a little bit more risk in the business, as you are no longer the diversified company you used to be.”

Some welts remain, including a string of drugs marketed by other companies that Pfizer has let slip away over the past few years. Teva Pharmaceutical Industries ’ migraine prevention antibody, called Ajovy, belonged to Pfizer before the company sold it in 2012. Ajovy is projected to hit more than $400 million a year in sales for Teva by 2023; other drugs attacking the same biological target are projected to sell even more. And in 2011, Clovis Oncology licensed a type of cancer drug called a PARP inhibitor from Pfizer; that drug is on track to sell about $500 million by 2023.

(In 2016, Pfizer got another PARP inhibitor in its $14 billion takeover of Medivation.)

Bourla acknowledges some errors, but says that, on balance, the company has more wins than losses when it comes to programs it fields out and brings in.

“We gave 100 away. I don’t regret 99. I regret one,” he says. “We brought a lot in, not everything worked, but those that worked, they worked very well. What I see in balance, I’m satisfied.”

The risks are clear: An unexpected failure of the Ibrance in the adjuvant trials would probably shake faith in the company, as would a string of failures of their lower-profile pipeline drugs.

Schott, while he sees the potential for growth, is skeptical. He rates the company Neutral, and in a September note said that Pfizer’s “multiple is ahead of itself.”

“The part I’m struggling a bit with is when I look at the rest of the pipeline, there are some, I’d say, interesting opportunities, but products I think still need to be derisked,” he said.

Still, with the stock relatively cheap, the risk may be worth taking. The promised sales gains could turn the dowdy old drugmaker into a red-hot stock.

Pfizer is clearly set to be a different sort of investment than it was before the spinoff. The company is splitting the dividend proportionally between Pfizer and the generic-drug spinoff, and executives have said they expect that dividend increases, which have been steady in recent years, will slow in the near term. Can Pfizer go from being an income play to a growth story?

“If we weren’t in the business of embracing risk and being courageous, we should do other things than innovative breakthrough medicines,” Dolsten says. “That is what we love to do. That is what I’ve done my entire career. And that’s when we thrive.” 