Vaccine Makers Tell Congress They Are Hopeful, but Challenges Remain

At a hearing before a congressional subcommittee Tuesday morning, representatives of five drug companies behind leading Covid-19 vaccine programs told lawmakers that they have confidence that one or more of their vaccines will work. But they warned of challenges ahead.

The hearing of the House Energy and Commerce Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee began at 10 a.m. Eastern time, and is set to continue throughout the morning. Drug company representatives delivered opening statements, which were also submitted in writing.

Questions from subcommittee members are likely to focus on issues of safety, manufacturing, and pricing, among other matters. Those will begin later in the morning. Below are highlights of the opening statements, as they were submitted to the committee.

“I believe the probability is high that the biopharmaceutical industry will be able to develop one or more safe and effective vaccines, effective antiviral treatments, and targeted immune-modulators that patients and the world at large so desperately need,” said Pfizer (ticker: PFE)’s chief business officer, John Young, in his written testimony. “But we must also remain vigilant and be prepared to respond to potential new strains of the virus or future threats.”
Pfizer’s Young said the company had begun to scale up production, and would make its vaccine at plants in Michigan, Massachusetts, and Missouri, and is procuring raw materials, glass, and stoppers.
AstraZeneca (AZN)’s executive vice president, Menelas Pangalos, told the committee in his written testimony that it hoped to have data from late-stage Phase II/III trials of its Covid-19 vaccine by the fall.
“Our team is continuing to make progress in our development programs, and we fully intend to provide broad access to therapeutics, if approved or authorized under an emergency use authorization, in the U.S. and across the world,” Pangalos said.
Merck’s (MRK) Dr. Julie Gerberding, in her spoken testimony, said: “There will be no safety shortcuts at Merck.”
“Speed is important, but we will not compromise scientific efficacy, quality, and above all, safety, despite the sense of urgency we all feel,” Gerberding wrote in her written testimony.
Gerberding also wrote that global vaccine industry capacity was already full. “Not only is there not a lot of excess capacity available, but it is not always easily transferable from making one vaccine to another,” she said. “In order to meet anticipated global demand for SARS-CoV-2 vaccines, the industry will need to approximately double its current manufacturing capacity.”
Dr. Gerberding also highlighted the risk of lack of trust in medical authorities. “We also need to start now to build trust in the new vaccines and address escalating levels of misinformation related to the pandemic,” she said in her written testimony. “We are dismayed by the ongoing dissemination of information that is inaccurate and/or misguided.”
Moderna (MRNA) President Dr. Stephen Hoge said in his written testimony that the company is dedicated to “creating a safe, effective vaccine that can help bring an end to the global pandemic.”
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) head of clinical development and medical affairs Dr. Macaya Douoguih said it was committed to offering its vaccine on a not-for-profit basis during the pandemic. “We are committed to one price globally, regardless of country or income tier. The not-for-profit price will be for the emergency pandemic period,” Douoguih said.