S&P 500, Nasdaq Edge Higher to Finish the Week at New Highs

Stocks notched modest gains Friday, capping off an uneven week of trading on Wall Street. That was still enough to push the S&P 500 and Nasdaq Composite to new closing highs. Investors have had to weigh signs of an uneven economic recovery, a stalemate in Congress over another round of stimulus, and increasing tensions between the U.S. and China.

At the close the Dow Jones Industrial Average was roughly flat for the week, but gained 190 points, or 0.7% today. The S&P 500 is up 0.7% for the week and gained 0.3% today to mark its 15th record close of the year; it’s the index’s longest weekly winning streak since late 2019. The Nasdaq rose 2.7% this week and added 0.4% today, its 36th record of 2020.

There was little in the way of data today, but U.S. saw upbeat August PMI data today, as well as another month of record existing home sales in July.
In Europe, the Stoxx Europe 600 index surrendered earlier gains to trade down 0.2%, and the euro and pound both fell sharply after the latest round of Brexit talks concluded with “little progress.”

Fresh data out of Europe showed the overall eurozone composite purchasing managers index falling to a two-month low of 51.6 in August from 54.9 in July, with particular weakness in France. The U.K. reported a gain in July retail sales, but the nation’s borrowing from April to July drove national debt to £2 trillion ($2.6 trillion) for the first time ever.

The data follows Thursday, which saw U.S. investors brush aside disappointing jobless-claims, and economic concerns expressed by the Federal Reserve’s latest minutes released on Wednesday.

For some analysts, the ability of investors and markets to constantly brush aside bad news is increasingly unsettling.

“Just as we are at risk of sleepwalking into a lower level of existence, worse education outcomes for our children, persistently lower incomes and reduced social interactions against our will, it’s far too easy to watch the economic data and think it’s not so bad after all,” Neil Wilson, chief market analyst at Markets.com, told clients.

“The truth is it remains shocking and will get worse,” he said.
Europe’s virus cases have been climbing this summer, while it appears the U.S. may finally be getting a handle on its own outbreaks. Meeting with French President Emmanuel Macron, German Chancellor Angela Merkel said on Thursday that Europe must avoid fresh lockdowns and closing borders, Bloomberg reported.

Read: A Tidal Wave of Vaccine News Is Hitting the Market

Oil fell Friday, with the price of West Texas Intermediate crude falling 1.3%.

Tesla (ticker: TSLA) shares were up 2.4% after the stock closed above $2,000 for the first time Thursday.

Deere (DE) shares climbed 4.4% after the agricultural machinery maker reported better-than-expected financial results for its fiscal third quarter. The company acknowledged facing “uncertain market conditions,” it boosted its sales outlook for the year.

Foot Locker (FL) shares were up 1.4% after the athletic retailer’s second quarter results beat analyst expectations thanks in part to an 18.6% surge in same-store sales. The company also reinstated its quarterly dividend program.

Pfizer (PFE) and BioNTech SE (BNTX) shares gained 0.4% and 10.2%, respectively, after the companies shared positive data from studies on its potential Covid-19 vaccine. They believe the vaccine could be ready for regulatory review in October.

Corrections & amplifications: The S&P 500 reached a record Friday. A previous headline incorrectly said the Dow reached a new high today.

