The Dow Treads Water as Investors Await Earnings. Amazon Jumps After Upgrade.

Stocks are wobbly to start the week, as investors await a fresh batch of earnings, with an eye on Washington and the potential for more stimulus.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average is barely higher and the S&P 500 is ahead 0.8%. The Nasdaq Composite is leading the way, with a 1.5% gain.

Coronavirus cases are continuing to rise, leading to concerns about the need for shutdowns and restrictions. Meanwhile, earnings season has been a mixed bag thus far, although the economic impact of the pandemic and little clarity about government help is an overarching worry for investors.

“Investors are increasingly looking past the rise in coronavirus infections and are instead focusing on prospects for better economic activity in the future and hopes of progress on treatments and vaccines,” Nuveen’s Chief Equity Strategist Robert Doll wrote, although he is “concerned over the lack of ready catalysts that could make the current economic recovery self-sustaining. A rebound in global trade levels would be the most obvious candidate, but that seems quite unlikely in the current geopolitical environment.”

With Congress back in session, some are hoping that there will be another round of stimulus from the government. “Considering the challenges with managing the pandemic and the reality that a truly effective vaccine or therapeutic is unlikely before very late this year, the additional fiscal stimulus is needed to support consumers and small businesses,” Penn Mutual Asset Management CEO David O’Malley said.

But the two parties are sparring over what should be included in another package.

More earnings from big players are due this week, and positive—or better-than-feared—results could help revive investors’ enthusiasm.

“While concerns abound, there are some positive signs,” James Investment Research’s David James wrote. “Fund managers have remained cautious and continue to hold relatively high levels of cash. This money could be deployed into stocks and push prices higher.”

As for individual stocks, Amazon.com (AMZN) is up 5.6% after Goldman Sachs raised its price target, putting it above all other analyst estimates.

Chevron (CVX) is down 1.4% after saying it will purchase Noble Energy (NBL), up 5.2%, in a $13 billion deal.

Microsoft (MSFT) is up 2.8% as analysts boost their targets ahead of earnings.

Pfizer (PFE) is up 0.7% after saying it will give 300 million doses of its Covid-19 vaccine to the U.K.

Urban Outfitters (URBN) is falling 6.9% after Loop Capital downgraded it to Sell, arguing that things can get worse for the apparel retailer.