30,000 Volunteers Currently Participating in Covid-19 Vaccine Trials, and Two More Numbers to Know


89% of S&P 500’s Market Cap Has Reported Second Quarter Results
Earnings season is beginning to wind down this week, but there are still some notable companies left to report.

Today is particularly busy. Barrick Gold, Duke Energy, Marriott International, Occidental Petroleum, Royal Caribbean Cruises, and Simon Property Group all report.

Tomorrow, Broadridge Financial Solutions and food-distributor Sysco report. Then on Wednesday, Lyft and the other Cisco—Cisco Systems, the tech company—both release results.

On Thursday, Applied Materials and Tapestry report. And, finally, DraftKings closes the week on Friday.

30,000 Volunteers Participate in Phase 3 Covid-19 Vaccine Trials
There are currently several potential Covid-19 immunizations at that stage. They include efforts by Moderna, Pfizer, and AstraZeneca.

Phase 3 trials work by exposing some volunteers to the vaccine candidate and others to a placebo. Researchers then compare the number of infections in the two groups. The stronger the vaccine, the larger the difference should be. And the more coronavirus is spreading in testing locations, the faster a statistically significant result can be determined.

That is one strange benefit of the large outbreaks in several U.S. states: A vaccine-trial result could come in just a matter of months. Moderna and Pfizer are conducting their trials here, while AstraZeneca is running studies in the U.K., South Africa, and Brazil.

Apple to Split Stock Again
If you bought just one share of Apple back in the 1980s, you would have 224 shares at the end of August. That is because Apple has split its stock multiple times in its history, and plans to do so again later this month.

Here’s how it will work. Apple stock currently trades for about $440. After the coming split, shareholders will have 4 stocks worth $110 for every share they currently own. The value of their stake is unchanged, it’s just spread over more shares. Apple believes that will attract more investors.

But Apple aside, stock splits have become much less common in recent years. The rise of ETFs means that more people own bits and pieces of individual stocks through their index ownership.

And, more recently, several brokers have begun offering fractional shares. That means investors can buy a specified dollar amount of a stock, rather than round numbers of shares.

Those trends have made large stock prices less of a barrier for investors.