These Stocks Are ‘Special.’ Here’s Why

Every investor wants a sustainable edge—a system that produces strong returns and is repeatable. Some investors look for the cheapest stocks. Others look for growth. Still others focus on exploiting trading arbitrage. There are many ways to try to earn a return.

London native Jim Osman has his own, unconventional way to invest. A Wall Street veteran who spent almost a decade at Société Générale, he wasn’t happy pitching typical analyst research to institutional brokerage clients. Instead, he was drawn to special situations—underfollowed companies, unique circumstances, or difficult-to-understand investments.

To pursue his passion, Osman left Société Générale in 2001 to work for a London-based hedge fund before starting his own research firm, The Edge, in 2006. Today, The Edge sells idea generation to money managers and activist investors. Institutional investors spend up to $50,000 a year with Osman’s firm; The Edge also has a product for individual investors that runs $99 a month for access to 50 to 60 special-situation ideas every year.

Special situations are a niche area because they require a lot of extra work, and the reward isn’t always there. The Hedge Fund Research Special Situation Index has returned about 2%, on average, over the past 10 years, trailing the broader Hedge Fund Equity Index by about three percentage points annually. Osman’s ideas, however, have had average annual returns of about 9% over the same span. The S&P 500 index has returned almost 14% a year, on average, over the past decade, but Osman’s ideas aren’t meant to compete with the broader market; instead, he’s hoping that clients find five or six atypical ideas each year. “Special situations are just an interesting space,” he says. “Should it be the whole of your portfolio? Probably not. Should it be a good 25% to 30%? Yes.” Barron’s spoke with Osman to hear about his strategy, and get a few ideas. An edited version of our conversation follows.

Barron’s: Why did you start The Edge?

Jim Osman: I think I’m a bit chalk and cheese to some people, you know?

I don’t. Chalk and cheese?

Different. People either like me or they don’t. I’m passionate about what I say, and I’m going to stand by what I say.

Let’s start with your definition of a special situation.

It’s an abnormal event that will encourage an investor to trade the stock on the basis of an up-and-coming event. Something is going to be different in the future. The fundamentals have to be analyzed pre- and post-event.

How is that different from typical stock research?

Technology can’t work this out the way it can analyze stock index movements and technical movements. So, it remains interesting. Special situations remains a space that needs a good human element to analyze it.

We screen for catalyst events two ways: Bottom-up on fundamentals when the stock is exceptionally cheap, and also top-down where the public announcement from a company might make sense to look at any possible value creation.

What types of situations do you end up analyzing?

Business splits, spinoffs, acquisitions, management changes, restructurings. Anything with a catalyst event is a special situation to me. Management buying stock is also a great undercovered catalyst. Contrary to people’s beliefs, special situations are not always small- or mid-cap companies going through corporate change. Pfizer [ticker: PFE] is an up-and-coming special situation.

How so?

There is a triple-catalyst. Pfizer bought Mylan. They are combining their Upjohn generics segment with Mylan and spinning it off. That’s the big event. They also own 25% of biotech Cerevel. That is becoming publicly traded after being bought by a special purpose acquisition company, or SPAC. Lastly, we have tremendous insider buying ahead of the spin.

Who is buying?

Key insiders. One is on the audit committee. He has put $500,000 in the stock in recent weeks. The other insider buying is on the science committee. That’s Scott Gottlieb, former commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration. He’s paying more than his first purchases. That’s significant. I consider this smart insider buying.

This is a good example of the strategy dynamic working across market caps. Pfizer has more than $200 billion in market capitalization, and no one is looking closely at its upcoming spinoff and SPAC.

Do you have a target price?

This is one we are still investigating.

How do you set your price for buying or selling?

We value companies pre- and post- split, taking valuation, management, and technical considerations into account. We exit on the basis of our valuation. We don’t mind selling a little early. We are value investors; we just use catalysts to recognize that value. Our average holding period is six months. It can be as short as three months and as long as two years.

What else are you looking at now?

Our focus has been very tech. Match.com, for example.

Match Group [MTCH] is up 60% this year. What’s the special situation?

It [separated] from IAC, which is Barry Diller, a huge value creator.

The spinoff of Diller’s 80% stake [in July] could not have come at a better time for the dating app company, as it morphs into video dating. If successful, it will roll out its new-era live camera dates across the group’s brands, as singles’ desire for interaction grows.

What I see in the future is a very insular world; the pandemic has just accelerated that. Years ago, you’d go out to a bar. You’d meet someone. And then you’d get on. Singles aren’t necessarily doing that anymore. They’re going online.

You are buying into growth potential. The trend keeps giving, even after the spin. Match trades at 45 times 2021 earning and is growing rapidly. Huge room to grow. We see a 40% upside from here. This will be a good one to hold onto.

What else?

The breakup of Madison Square Garden into two companies.

So, there’s Madison Square Garden Sports [MSGS], which owns the Knicks, and Madison Square Garden Entertainment [MSGE], which is what you like.

Yes. MSGE owns the Garden, Radio City Music Hall, etc. There’s a case for liking them both, which is not the answer you want. So I’m going to err on the side of MSGE. It’s trading at a huge, 55% discount from our net asset value. I think it’s underfollowed. The split was [finalized] in the malaise of the Covid stuff. It has gone from big-cap to small-cap, and now it’s a great opportunity for future growth.

Look at where Cablevision spun off MSG [announced] back in 2009. It started out at about sub-$20 and eventually hit $300. Back then, it was all about people hating the Dolans. You’re from New York. What do you think of the Dolans?

Um...

I think the public either likes them or don’t—like chalk and cheese. Most don’t, and have missed out on a tremendous rise in the MSG share price.

Hey, if I knew a guy who always made money, I’d be wanting to copy him. It’s as simple as that. The Dolans have been value-creators all along.

MSGE is building what they call a sphere in Las Vegas. They’re building the mecca of e-sports in Las Vegas. A year ago, a 16-year-old won $3 million on Fortnite, its world cup. ESPN is showing [e-sports] at night. E-sports are accelerating at a tremendous rate. You and I say, “Hey, it’s just kids gaming.” But you know what? The sports stars of the future are the guys sitting on the couch.

Besides the future of e-sports, what’s to like about MSGE?

You have land worth $1.2 billion. You’ve got the air rights worth $400 million to $600 million. You’ve got the Tao Group [a hospitality company that operates restaurants and nightclubs around the world]. And if you throw in the Sphere, as well—there’s huge upside. No one’s covering it; it’s only about a $1.7 billion market cap. The stock has plus-50% upside.

How about one more?

You’re pushing me. Do you cycle?

Not really.

Have you ever Zwift?

No.

Zwift is an online cycling program. I’ve been using it a long time, now. This thing has grown tremendously. It’s a private company. I’m telling you about it because people should watch out for it: It’s [probably] going to IPO in September. It will drop Peloton for dead.

People are doing a tremendous amount of virtual cycling, certainly with the pandemic—you can’t buy a stationary bike [that’s connected to the internet] online right now. Zwift is putting real races on; they’ve also started introducing triathlons.

This is where the investor’s mind has got to think a little bit differently. In 10 years, am I still rolling up to a football game, eating my hot dog, watching these guys run around? I’d say people should have a look at e-sports—the Zwifts of the world—which still have enormous amounts to grow. E-sports have just started. Anything e-sports-related I’m a big fan of: Take-Two Interactive Software [TTWO], Electronic Arts [EA], and Zwift for the future.

What about Take Two and EA?

They are growth stocks, but they are not typical special situations.

Thanks for your ideas, Jim.

