Weekend reads: Where to retire if you want to avoid extreme weather


Also, a lung doctor talks about COVID-19 lessons learned, changes to the Dow Jones Industrial Average and important information for people considering early retirement
Silvia Ascarelli helps a couple that wishes to retire in 10 years and move somewhere with little ice and snow but also without extreme heat. She names three places, including a “wild-card pick.”

What if you are in your 50s and haven’t started to save for retirement?
Alessandra Malito takes a sober approach to help a 57-year-old woman who has a good job as a nurse, but hasn’t begun to save for retirement. The good news is it’s not too late for a reasonable savings plan to set up a decent retirement, or for a career change.

A doctor treats COVID-19 ‘long haulers’ and tells of lessons learned
Jaimy Lee interviews Dr. Dixie Harris, a pulmonologist who flew with a large team to New York from Utah to treat coronavirus patients in hospitals in April and shares details about what she learned about helping patients recover more quickly without a ventilator. One lesson about masks: none of her team of 100 was infected with the virus.

Three changes to the Dow and what they might mean
On Monday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average DJIA, -1.58%  will undergo three changes to its 30-stock group of companies. Salesforce.com CRM, -3.28%  will replace Exxon Mobil XOM, -2.03%, Amgen AMGN, -1.56%  will replace Pfizer PFE, -0.77%  and Honeywell International HON, -0.53%  will replace Raytheon Technologies RTX, -0.01%.

Conventional wisdom is that being removed from the Dow is bad for a stock’s performance. But Mark Hulbert uses data to explain why being removed from the Dow may actually boost a stock’s long-term performance.

If you need to withdraw from your retirement account because of the pandemic, you may be able to avoid a tax penalty
Bill Bischoff — MarketWatch’s Tax Guy — lists 10 ways to avoid a penalty for taking an early retirement-account withdrawal because of COVID-19.

More from Bischoff:Thinking about moving to a state with lower taxes? These are the mistakes to avoid

Read this if you wish to retire early
Chris Mamula explains how the timing of your decision to stop working will affect your Social Security benefits.

Stock valuations have popped — here’s what to do
Michael Brush has a five-part-plan to protect your investment portfolio.

More on the frothy market:Investors have discarded this common-sense indicator in recent months — and that shows just how out of whack this record-setting stock market is

The risks of transferring property to family
Quentin Fottrell — MarketWatch’s Moneyist — digs into a sticky situation involving quitclaim deeds and wills.

Dividend stocks
So far this year, 63 companies among the S&P 500 SPX, -1.89%  have lowered or suspended dividends paid to shareholders. But among the 63 S&P 500 Dividend Aristocrats SP50DIV, -2.64%, there haven’t been any dividend cuts. have done so. With interest rates so low, Dan Genter, CEO of RNC Genter Capital Management in Los Angeles, is a four-decade veteran of the bond market, but believes even conservative investors need to look to dividend stocks for income.