Big Changes Are Coming to the Dow — Just Not the Right Ones

It should have been Facebook, not Salesforce.com.

The shake-up in the Dow Jones Industrial Average unveiled Monday will add three companies next Monday to the venerable index: Amgen (ticker: AMGN), Honeywell (HON), and Salesforce (CRM). They will replace Pfizer (PFE), Raytheon Technologies (RTX), and Exxon Mobil (XOM).

S&P Dow Jones Indices, the committee that oversees the Dow, may have erred in choosing Salesforce, which is barely profitable based on generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) as opposed to the hugely profitable Facebook.
It looks like S&P Dow Jones may have selected Salesforce because it classifies the software firm as a technology company, while Facebook and Alphabet (GOOG) are deemed communications companies. S&P Dow Jones was seeking to lift the tech weighting in the Dow following Apple’s coming four-for-one split.

Facebook, however, is far better known than Salesforce and has a much larger market value—$760 billion versus $186 billion—and truly is a blue-chip company.

Both have similar stock prices, which is important in the Dow because the index uses an old-fashioned price weighting. The prices of the 30 Dow components are added up and then multiplied by the divisor to arrive at the index’s value. Facebook finished Monday at $271 and Salesforce.com at $208.

Facebook could more easily enter the Dow than Alphabet or Amazon.com (AMZN), whose super-high stock prices would have overwhelmed the index.

The Amgen and Honeywell moves are understandable and likely were driven in part by their high stock prices relative to the similar companies that they effectively replace: Pfizer and Raytheon.

The booting of Exxon Mobil is a blow to the top U.S. energy company that was the largest company in the stock market more than a decade ago.

Exxon Mobil—the old Standard Oil of New Jersey—was synonymous with blue chip for decades. At $173 billion, it’s still larger than rival Chevron’s $159 billion in market value. But its stock price, at $42, is much lower against $87 for Chevron, likely making it expendable. Chevron, which used to be Standard Oil of California, will remain in the index.

Another company that should be in the Dow is Berkshire Hathaway (BRKB). It’s the sixth-largest company in the stock market and is a quintessential blue chip. Its class B shares, trading around $212, would be a perfect addition to the index and affirmation of Warren Buffett’s success in building the company over 55 years.