Russia Registered a Coronavirus Vaccine. The Market Loves It.

Russia says it has registered the world’s first vaccine for Covid-19. There are caveats, but an effective vaccine would be great news for the world.

The Wall Street Journal has described the registration as similar to approval by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, calling it the most important step before a drug can be made available for use. Yet the Russian vaccine—developed at the Gamaleya Institute—doesn’t appear to have gone through the equivalent of Phase 3 trials.Typically drugs and vaccines travel through three stages of approvals. Phase 1 trials determine safety. Phase 2 are about dosing—how much of a drug or vaccine to take. And Phase 3 is about effectiveness. The speed with which Russia developed the vaccine leaves some questions about efficacy unanswered.

A Google Translate version of the announcement says it was tested on animals and two groups of human volunteers of 38 people each, far less than is required for approval of drugs by the FDA.

Russia, for its part, is confident in the vaccine. “According to the results, the vaccine showed high efficacy and safety. All volunteers developed high titers of antibodies to Covid-19, while none of them had serious complications of immunization,” said Russian Minister of Health Mikhail Murashko. according to a Google Translate version of his agency’s news release.

Investors want to believe. Europe’s FTSE 100 index gained 1.4%. Asia’s Hang Seng Index rose 2.1%. The Dow Jones Industrial Average and S&P 500 are up 1.2% and 0.3%, respectively.

U.S. vaccine related stocks—including Moderna (ticker: MRNA) and Pfizer (PFE), which are both working to develop protection against Covid-19—are now down 2.5% and 0.8%, respectively.

Stock in Novavax (NVAX)—another company working on coronavirus vaccines—was down 7.7% in early Tuesday trading.

What’s more, Boeing (BA) shares are up 4.5% Tuesday. Boeing, obviously, isn’t a medical stock, but commercial aerospace has been devastated by Covid-19.

The world, it appears, is happy with the Russian announcement—though it will want as many vaccines as quickly as possible.

It’s hard to understate the importance of a vaccine. The U.S. stock market has recovered from pandemic-induced lows, but the U.S. unemployment rate remains more than 10% and economic output plunged more than 30% at an annualized rate in the second quarter. Effective protection against Covid-19 is needed to return the world to some semblance of normal.

Investors, along with everyone else, hope Russia has cracked the Covid-19 vaccine equation.

