BioNTech and Pfizer’s Covid-19 Vaccine Could Lead the Pack, New Data Suggest


A day after BioNTech and Pfizer posted a paper showing that the version of their Covid-19 vaccine they are testing in Phase 2/3 pivotal trials is safer than an earlier version, analysts are praising the data, with one suggesting it shows that the companies’ vaccine might be the best of the pack.

“The data and our discussions with physicians, support our view that PFE and BNTX could have the first-in-class, as well as best-in-class, vaccine to treat COVID-19,” Cantor Fitzgerald analyst Louise Chen wrote in a note out late Thursday.

While the BioNTech (ticker: BNTX) and Pfizer (PFE) paper was posted on a so-called preprint server on Thursday morning, the companies did not issue their press releases announcing the data until after the market closed Thursday. Shares of BioNTech were up 1% Thursday, and another 8% Friday morning, while shares of Pfizer climbed 1.2% on Thursday and 0.8% on Friday morning.

In addition to announcing the new data, Pfizer and BioNTech said Thursday evening that their Phase 2/3 worldwide study has enrolled over 11,000 people since it began in July. The study aims to enroll up to 30,000 people, and the companies reiterated that they will seek regulatory review of the vaccine “as early as October 2020.”

Shares of Pfizer are up 12.8% this year, while shares of BioNTech are up 95.6%. Pfizer trades at 14.2 times earnings expected over the next 12 months, just over its 5-year average of 13.4 times earnings. Of the 16 analysts who cover the stock tracked by FactSet, eight rate it a Buy, while eight rate it a Hold.

The new vaccine data released Thursday relates to BNT162b2, the version of their Covid-19 vaccine being tested in the Phase 2/3 trials. Earlier Phase 1 data released by the companies was on a similar but slightly different vaccine, called BNT162b1. The new paper reports that, while immune response was similar between the two vaccines, BNT162b2 appeared safer.

“The data set presented here guided our decision to advance BNT162b2... into the Phase 2/3,” the paper reads. “The primary consideration driving this decision was the milder systemic reactogenicity profile of BNT162b2, particularly in older adults, in the context of comparable antibody responses elicited by both candidate vaccines.”

Fewer than 20% of participants reported mild to moderate fever after taking BNT162b2, according to the companies.

In a note out Friday, SVB Leerink analyst Geoffrey Porges noted that the new data also includes one of the first reports on a Covid-19 vaccine in elderly populations, which are particularly vulnerable to the virus. “The results show that the vaccine was safe and does elicit an antibody response superior to that seen in convalescent sera cohort in subjects 65 and over, although magnitude of response is less pronounced than in the younger population,” Porges wrote.

Cantor Fitzgerald’s Chen wrote that her estimation that the Pfizer and BioNTech vaccine could be the best of the bunch was based on the immunogenicity data, the data on T cell responses, and the safety profile of BNT162b2.