The Stock Market Is Rising Despite All the Negative Headlines. Here’s Why.


Makes No Sense at All. As Barron’s has pointed out, there was a lot of news this past weekend, with more bad than good. China reportedly told state-owned companies to stop buying U.S. soybeans. More serious, protests broke out across the U.S. following the killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis by a police officer. What little light there was, was provided by NASA and SpaceX, which launched U.S. astronauts into space.

Stocks aren't dropping, though. They’re rising, which seems quite strange given the backdrop. The Dow Jones Industrial Average has advanced 11.31 points, or 0.4%, while the S&P 500 has risen 0.6%, and the Nasdaq Composite has gained 0.9%. Even stranger, health care is the only sector that is in the red today.

That health care would be a loser makes sense given its own headlines. Pfizer has dropped 7.2% after its breast cancer treatment failed to hit its primary endpoint in a late-stage trial. Gilead Sciences (GILD), meanwhile, has slipped 3.3% after releasing more data on the efficacy of remdesivir for the treatment of coronavirus, data that left investors wanting. With health care as one of the best-performing sectors in 2020, it’s no surprise to see them pulling back on some less-than-positive news.

Others make less sense, at least on the surface. The Consumer Discretionary sector, for instance, is up 2.5%, despite violence that has damaged stores and forced many to close. But it’s not as if the protests are being completely ignored. Target (TGT) stock has dropped 2.2% after it was forced to close some stores and limit the operating hours of others. Gap (GPS), which was upgraded on Monday, is up 12% ahead of its earning later this week on bets that a combination of Fed largesse and reopening economies mean its shares are too cheap.

That latter point seems confirmed by looking at the other stocks doing well today, companies like Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings (NCLH), Kimco Realty (KIM), and Harley-Davidson (HOG), to name just a few. All will benefit if the economy can reopen.

But that doesn’t mean the market will be able to ignore the protests forever—or the bad economic data, for that matter. “While U.S. equities still appear attractive, given 10-year Treasury yields of less than 1%, the risk of a correction has risen,” writes David Kelly, chief global strategist at JPMorgan Funds. “The events of the past week have likely only increased that risk.”