Lawmaker Presses Drugmakers on Covid-19 Vaccine Pricing

In a hearing before a House subcommittee on Tuesday, one Democratic lawmaker pressed five drugmakers on their pricing plans for Covid-19 vaccines.

The brief clash was a preview of the pressure drugmakers will face to keep the down price of any Covid-19 vaccine that makes it to the market.

During the exchange, Rep. Jan Schakowsky, an Illinois Democrat, asked representatives of the drugmakers if they would sell their Covid-19 vaccine at cost, and if they would provide “contract transparency” to prove that the company was not taking a profit.

Representatives from Moderna (ticker: MRNA) and Merck (MRK) said their companies would seek to profit on Covid-19 vaccines.

“We will not sell it at cost, no ma’am,” said Moderna President Dr. Stephen Hoge.

Schakowsky noted that Pfizer (PFE), which also sent a representative to the hearing, had earlier said that it, too, would seek to profit on its vaccine.

Two companies did make the commitment that Schakowsky asked for, to a degree. AstraZeneca’s (AZN) representative said that the British company would not profit on the 300 million doses it has already agreed to sell to the U.S. government. And a representative for Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) said it would sell its vaccine at a “not-for-profit price” during the course of the pandemic.

“Ensuring the safety and efficacy of Covid-19 vaccine, of course, is critical, but it will mean nothing if price is a barrier to all American getting it,” the congresswoman said.

Drug pricing has been one of the major political issues for the health-care sector in recent years, with Democrats and Republicans in rare accord that drugs should cost less. Worries over drug price legislation and executive orders have depressed the valuations of pharmaceutical companies.

But the topic has slipped from the table in recent months, as the nation has focused on the Covid-19 pandemic, and pharmaceutical companies have shouldered the hopes of millions looking for drugs that can pave the way back to normalcy.

Now, with drug developers beginning pivotal trials of their experimental Covid-19 vaccines, the issue may be on its way back. Pricing decisions for Covid-19 vaccines could be among the most-watched pricing decisions for drug companies in history.

Part of the attention is a result of the waterfall of cash the federal government is diverting toward some vaccine developers. In a follow-up question, Schakowsky asked if the agreements that companies had made with the U.S. government to receive funding for their vaccine and therapeutic programs had included provisions relating to affordability.

In response, Moderna’s representative, Hoge, said that the company had research and development agreements with the government, not supply agreements, and that those agreements had no affordability provision. Other representatives gave similar answers.

The congresswoman noted that Pfizer had not taken government funding for its program, and said she was “concerned” the company had made that choice so it could “price gouge” without criticism from Congress.

Pfizer’s representative, the company’s chief business officer, John Young, said Pfizer had turned down government funding so it could move more quickly.

“We recognize these are extraordinary times, and our pricing will reflect that,” Young said. “During the term of the pandemic, we will price our potential vaccine consistent with the global health emergency we are facing.” The company thinks that the vaccine should be free to patients, he added.

Later in the hearing, Rep. John Sarbanes, a Maryland Democrat, asked why vaccine development is so much slower in normal times

“I think the biggest time saver is we’re already investing in building the manufacturing capacity,” said Merck’s representative, Dr. Julie Gerberding, the company’s executive vice president and chief patient officer. “Normally that doesn’t happen until we’ve proven that the vaccine works.”

She also said that Food and Drug Administration actions, including issuing guidelines for vaccine development, have been helpful.

In response, Sarbanes suggested that the pandemic could change vaccine development in the long term.

