Moderna Joins Ranks of U.S. Covid-Vaccine Deals. Here’s What Wall Street Is Saying.

Moderna now has a billion-dollar deal to sell millions of doses of its Covid-19 vaccine candidate to the U.S. government.

The company (ticker: MRNA) said late Tuesday that the U.S. secured 100 million doses of its mRNA-1273 vaccine for up to $1.53 billion. The government has the option to buy an additional 400 million doses.

It is the latest deal in the Trump administration’s Operation Warp Speed plan to fast-track promising vaccine candidates. Johnson & Johnson (JNJ), GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) and Pfizer (PFE) received similar deals. Novavax (NVAX) received $1.6 billion from the U.S. government to develop a vaccine.

Moderna stock was up 1.4% Wednesday morning, in line with gains in the S&P 500. The company began enrolling participants for its phase 3 trial last month. Results are expected in October.

Jefferies analyst Michael Yee noted that, when combined with prior commitments from the U.S.’s Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority, Moderna has a total contract size of $2.48 billion, the largest of the current players to date. Moderna received two separate cash commitments totaling $955 million from the authority, part of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, to support development of its Covid-19 vaccine.

The combined investments would price the vaccine at about $25 a dose, or $15.25 for just the latest deal. Yee thinks this contact will remove an overhang on the stock that came as other players scooped up deals to supply doses for the U.S. He said it could also lead other countries to make deals now that the U.S. “is secured.”

Other countries “will want to secure deals out of sheer responsibility before the capacity of the major 3-4 players is locked up and where the U.S. has been securing the majority of early capacity already,” he wrote.

Chardan analysts Geulah Livshits and Gbola Amusa wrote in a note Wednesday that the U.S.’s agreement with Pfizer and BioNTech would price its vaccine at $15.25 a dose, while its Johnson & Johnson deal sits at $10 a dose. The investment in Moderna’s candidate would be “at the top of the range of disclosed agreements, and above our expectations of ‘midhigh teens’ pricing,” they wrote.

“The move to secure mRNA-1273 doses as part of Operation Warp Speed is not surprising given the involvement of various government agencies in supporting the early development, clinical testing, and manufacturing of mRNA-1273 since January,” they said.

They are waiting for a signal on what deals with other countries would look like, but see this as a positive signal for Moderna’s entry into the commercial space.

SVB Leerink analyst Mani Foroohar calculated the price at about $15.25 a dose, which was materially lower than his expectations for $22 a dose.

Foroohar noted there are incentive payments for timely delivery, adding risk if the vaccine can’t secure approval from the Food and Drug Administration by Jan. 31, 2021. Still, he sees the time horizon for an emergency-use authorization as likely, “given the flexibility of U.S. and global regulatory bodies concerning SARS-CoV-2 vaccine candidates.

Morgan Stanley analyst Matthew Harrison wrote that the contract gives investors more confidence that Moderna can supply and produce a vaccine at scale. “It also provides some certainty around the cost/dose for higher volume contracts which we see as in line with our modeled pricing.”