A Covid Vaccine Could Be Ready Sooner Than You Think


The recent flare-ups in Covid-19 are disheartening. One strange benefit of a higher infection rate, however, is that it could speed the conclusion of vaccine tests now under way.

Promising Covid vaccine candidates are in pivotal Phase 3 trials from Moderna (ticker: MRNA), Pfizer (PFE) with BioNTech (BNTX), and AstraZeneca (AZN) with Oxford University. Just behind them are Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) and a team of Sanofi (SNY) and GlaxoSmithKline (GSK).

As Morgan Stanley analysts Matthew Harrison and David Risinger explain in a Thursday note, the Phase 3 vaccine trials compare the number of infections between volunteers who got the vaccine and those who got a placebo shot. The more rampant Covid is in test locations, the sooner it will be apparent whether the vaccine is offering protection.

Results should arrive in the fall on the three studies by Moderna, Pfizer, and AstraZeneca. If one of the vaccines turns out to be highly protective—and infection rates remain at recent levels—we could have an answer as soon as early October, the analysts say. More likely, the answer will be apparent in November.

“[A]n early readout before the election is possible,” say the Morgan Stanley analysts, “but we continue to believe data is most likely just after the election.”

See our cover story on the vaccine race: Inside the Science and Companies Racing to Develop a Covid-19 Vaccine

On Moderna’s second-quarter conference call, the company’s chief medical officer Tal Zaks said he felt good about early trial data from his company and from Pfizer, which both use messenger-RNA technology to generate an immune response. He also praised the initial data shown this week by Novavax (NVAX), which is using synthetic versions of a SARS-CoV-2 virus protein.

“I think our data continue to be as good or better than anything anybody’s reported,” Zaks told conference-call listeners.

Another Thursday morning report by Raymond James analyst Steven Seedhouse compared the preclinical monkey studies now available for four vaccine candidates. He found Johnson & Johnson’s the most impressive, because the animals seemed to gain immunity after a single shot. Most of the vaccines being tested are giving patients a booster shot one month after the first vaccination.

The Phase 3 vaccine trials are all designed to count the number of infections among those vaccinated. Since it isn’t ethical to deliberately expose people to infection, we just have to wait around. The difference between the vaccine and placebo groups will emerge as a function of how rampant Covid is in the test areas and the strength of the vaccine’s protection. If a vaccine prevents 85% of infections that are occurring among the unvaccinated group, it will be apparent more quickly than it would be with a vaccine that prevents only 30% of the infections.

To enhance the power of the studies to detect a difference between the vaccines and placebos, the trials are enrolling 30,000 volunteers. AstraZeneca started first, and it’s already dosed about 13,000 people in the United Kingdom, South Africa, and Brazil. But the Morgan Stanley analysts note the rate of Covid infection in the U.K. is relatively low compared with the U.S. So the recently launched studies here by Moderna and Pfizer could yield results on a similar timetable.

Moderna aims to finish enrolling all 30,000 test subjects by September. If Covid infection rates continue at their recent elevated levels, the Morgan Stanley analysts figure that a readout on the vaccine’s efficacy could come as soon as a month later.

Moderna plans its first interim analysis after 53 infections. That could happen by mid-October, says Morgan Stanley. To show a clear difference by then, however, the analysts estimate that Moderna’s vaccine would need to be more than 75% effective at preventing infection. That’s a high bar. Assuming a more feasible protection level of around 60%, the analysts think there’s a good chance that Moderna will have an answer by its second interim analysis in early November. The final analysis will come in late November.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration says that it will approve a Covid vaccine that shows it would likely prevent at least 50% of infections and which would clearly prevent at least 30% of infections.