Visa, Apple, and Other Dividend-Growth Stocks Are Outshining Higher-Yielding Names This Year

The global pandemic has forced many companies to cut or suspend dividends, creating more uncertainty for income investors.

Still, plenty of companies, from Costco Wholesale (ticker: COST) to Johnson & Johnson (JNJ), have put through dividend increases in recent months, thanks to their durable businesses. And dividend-growth stocks have outshined higher-yielding names in 2020.

Investors, however, shouldn’t go all in on dividend growth. Some higher-yielding stocks can offer attractive valuations and a way to diversify portfolios.

As of Aug. 4, the Vanguard Dividend Appreciation ETF (VIG) had returned about 0.7% this year, well ahead of the 11% loss for the Vanguard High Dividend Yield ETF (VYM).


Relative outperformance, at least recently, isn’t the only appeal of growing dividends. “Dividend growth not only helps investors keep pace with inflation, but it signals strengthening corporate fundamentals,” Morningstar’s Dan Levkovitz observes in a recent note.

The Morningstar U.S. Dividend Growth Index, which screens for companies that have raised their dividends for at least five straight years, didn’t escape the recent dividend carnage, however. It removed 27 companies after it rebalanced on June 22.

Gone from the index are Walt Disney (DIS), Southwest Airlines (LUV), Boeing (BA), Marriott International (MAR), Delta Air Lines (DAL), and Darden Restaurants (DRI), among many others. All of those companies suspended their dividends earlier this year as the pandemic took hold in the U.S.

The index excludes companies that pay out more than 75% of their earnings in dividends, “so they have the scope to maintain and grow their payout,” notes Lefkovitz. It also avoids the stocks with yields in the top 10% of the market to avoid “dividend traps.”

Many of the dividend cuts or suspensions among U.S. companies, though, have been concentrated in sectors such as energy, industrials, consumer cyclicals, and small-cap names. But dividends have hardly gone away.

As of July 31, there were 421 stocks in the Morningstar U.S. Dividend Growth Index, including JPMorgan Chase (JPM), Cisco Systems (CSCO), Pfizer (PFE), and Honeywell (HON).

The index is benefiting from dividend growth in certain sectors such as financial services, which it overweights. Constituents include Visa (V) and Mastercard (MA), which recently yielded 0.5% and 0.6%, respectively. That’s very low compared with the S&P 500’s average yield of about 1.7%, but Visa and Mastercard have been raising their dividends.

The Morningstar Dividend Growth Index’s other overweights include health care, utilities, and consumer defensive stocks, including Coca-Cola (KO) and Procter & Gamble (PG).

The index is moderately underweight the tech sector, which tends to have lower yields. A silver lining is that tech companies that do pay dividends tend to grow them regularly, thanks to their strong free cash flows.

Apple (AAPL), for example, yields 0.7%, and Microsoft’s (MSFT) is at around 1%. Both companies have declared dividend increases over the past 12 months—Apple having done so in April, when it announced a 6% increase of its quarterly payout to 82 cents a share.

Aaron Clark, portfolio manager for the equity dividend-plus strategy at GW&K Investment Management, points out that there is a strong correlation between value stocks and high-yielding dividend stocks. “It’s all the same trade, just sliced slightly differently,” he says.

The Russell 1000 Growth Index has returned about 20% this year, compared with a decline of 12% for the corresponding value index.

“If this pace is sustained, this would be the widest performance dispersion” between those two indexes “since the data set began in 1979, and even more extreme than the ‘tech bubble’ of 1999,” Clark observed in a recent note.

In the second quarter, Clark’s equity income strategy returned 17%, versus 20.5% for the S&P 500. Clark oversees about $1.2 billion in separate accounts.

One big plus for higher-yielding stocks is their reasonable valuations, for the most part. To illustrate his point, Clark divided the S&P 500 into five groups, or quintiles, based on price-earnings multiples for calendar 2021 earnings estimates. The most expensive S&P 500 quintile was trading at about 47 times, compared with 11 times for the cheapest group.

“Dividend stocks have lower valuations, and therefore a bigger margin of safety,” says Clark.

Clark added that “this is not the time to give up on [value stocks] to chase yesterday’s winners.” Granted, value has lagged behind growth since 2013, according to Cirrus Research, but that disparity has reached extreme levels.

Among the areas where Clark sees value is in certain REITs. One is Physicians Realty Trust (DOC), a medical-office REIT that yields about 5%. This stock is down about 1% this year, dividends included.

The company announced on July 1 that it had collected 95.9% of June rent and common area charges, versus 93.5% in April and 93.3% in May.

Another of REIT that Clark favors is VICI Properties (VICI), whose assets include Caesars Palace Las Vegas and Harrah’s Las Vegas, both of which are open.

The company’s properties, which include casinos, hotels, convention facilities and golf courses, are located in the northeast, Midwest, south and far west. “Nearly all of their properties are back up and running,” says Clark.

The stock, which yields about 5%, is down about 10% this year, although it has roughly doubled off its lows in March. Investors have shown a clear preference for dividend-growth stocks, but there are opportunities in higher-yielding names, albeit selectively.

“It’s not the right time to be giving up on the laggards,” says Clark, adding that portfolios “need to have some balance.”

