Pfizer Got Kicked Out of the Dow Just as Things Were Looking Up

The pharmaceutical firm Pfizer is getting booted from the Dow just as things are starting to look up for the company.

S&P Dow Jones Indices, which manages the Dow Jones Industrial Average, announced a reshuffling of the index Monday night, set to take effect next week. The company is dropping three firms from the index, including Pfizer (ticker: PFE). Pfizer is being replaced by the biotech company Amgen (AMGN).

In a statement, S&P Dow Jones Indices attributed the changes to the index to Apple’s (APPL) decision to split its stock, which necessitated a reweighting, and said the changes will “diversify the index.” The move will leave Merck (MRK) and Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) as the only big pharma firms in the Dow. Amgen will be the only biotech firm in the index.

Pfizer has undoubtedly had a rocky go of it over the past few years. It was among the Dow’s worst performers in 2019, after investors reacted poorly to the company’s announcement in late July that it would spin off its generic drug unit, which will merge with the generic drugmaker Mylan (MYL). Investors have been chiefly concerned about a flurry of patent expirations coming up for Pfizer in 2026, when the company is set to lose exclusive rights to five major drugs over the course of just three years.

Yet as Barron’s argued in a November cover story, the company has a convincing strategy to address that. The company has a promising pipeline, and it says it expects 6% annual sales growth over the next five years. Pfizer suffered a major pipeline disappointment in the spring when a trial of its drug Ibrance in early breast cancer failed. But the company’s CEO, Albert Bourla, says that the growth rate projection still holds.

“The 6% was based on a very broad range of products” in various stages of development with different probabilities of success, he told Barron’s in August.

Meanwhile, excitement over the company’s Covid-19 vaccine, which could be the first in the crop of Western-developed vaccines to offer pivotal data later this fall, has boosted the stock and drawn enormous attention to the company and its partner, the German biotech BioNTech (BNTX).

Shares of Pfizer are down 1.8% so far this year. The stock fel 1.1% on Tuesday on news of its exclusion from the Dow. It trades at 14.2 times earnings expected over the next 12 months, above its 5-year average of 13.4 times earnings. Of the 16 analysts who track the stock followed by FactSet, half rate it a Buy, while half rate it a Hold.

Analysts are similarly split on Amgen, Pfizer’s replacement in the Dow. Of the 29 analysts followed by FactSet who track Amgen, 16 rate it a Buy, while 11 rate it a Hold and two rate it a Sell. The stock is up 4.9% on Tuesday morning, and up 1.7% this year. It trades at 14.3 times earnings, according to FactSet, above its 5-year average of 13.6 times earnings.

Pfizer stock is off 0.3% in premarket trading Wednesday.