Exxon and Pfizer Just Got Booted From the Dow. Here’s What’s Replacing Them.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average is a strange index, and you only need to look at the changes it made on Monday to realize that.

Out go Exxon Mobil (ticker: XOM), Raytheon Technologies (RTX), and Pfizer (PFE). In come Salesforce. com (CRM), Honeywell International (HON), and Amgen (AMGN).

The Dow, remember, is price-weighted so stock positions are created based on which ones have the highest prices. If a stock’s price falls too much, it can end up having an insignificant impact on the index. It’s one reason that the folks who choose what stocks go into the index sometimes choose companies that are smaller based on market capitalization. Which might explain why Amgen, with a market value of $139 billion and a stock price of $245, would replace Pfizer (PFE), which has a market cap of $216 billion but a stock price of $38.84. Never mind that Pfizer is working on a vaccine that could save us all. All we can say is that at least the Dow committee didn’t pick Biogen (BIIB). Pfizer has dropped 1.4% to $38.31 in early Tuesday trading, while Amgen (AMGN) is up 5% to $247.39.

Honeywell, with a market cap of $111 billion and a stock price of $165.50, makes a little more sense. Raytheon Technologies is what’s left over after the Raytheon’s merger with United Technologies, and the spinoffs of Carrier Global (CARR) and Otis Worldwide (OTIS). Raytheon has a market cap of $92 billion and a stock price of $61.88. We’re not surprised by this one. Honeywell has gained 4% to $165.71, while Raytheon has fallen 1.9% to $60.74.

The strangest is the swap of Salesforce for Exxon, though not because Exxon got the boot. Having both Exxon and Chevron (CVX) makes little sense. Chevron has twice the weight of Exxon in the Dow, Chevron’s market cap is only $20 billion smaller than Exxon’s, and Chevron is arguably the better company, so off Exxon goes. But why Salesforce? All we can say is that it was the original cloud player, and has a $208.46 price tag as of Monday’s close. No doubt it fit what the index needed. Exxon has fallen 1.9% to $41.42, while Salesforce has risen 2.8% to $214.30.

And why did the benchmark need to make a change? Blame Apple (AAPL). It’s set to split at Friday’s close, and will be one-quarter the price it is now. That means it will be one-quarter the weight in the Dow that it has now. As Barron’s Andrew Bary noted, the Dow is already underweight tech stocks, so it makes sense to add one with a high price, though he also wonders why Salesforce was added and not Facebook (FB).

Still, it’s a silly way to weight an index, and makes us wonder why we follow it at all.