Germany Makes a Big Bet On a Covid-19 Vaccine Developer Once Coveted by Trump


Germany anted up the equivalent of $338 million Monday to fund a Covid-19 vaccine project that will become the third well-financed program in the world to try the cutting-edge messenger RNA technology against the novel coronavirus.

The German government’s 300 million euro investment will make the privately held German firm CureVac AG into a serious rival to the U.S.-based Moderna (ticker: MRNA) and a team of Pfizer (PFE) and Germany’s BioNTech (BNTX). The latter two programs have begun human clinical trials.

While the human race will benefit from any successful vaccine, Germany’s bet highlights the national stakes that have complicated the vaccine race. In March, Germany reportedly quashed an attempt by the administration of U.S. President Donald Trump to buy into CureVac and secure its vaccine output for America.

In Monday morning trading, Moderna stock was up 4%, to $64.35, while BioNTech’s was up 2%, to $49.40. The Nasdaq Composite Index was down slightly, by 0.5%.

Like Moderna and BioNTech, CureVac wants to use the information-carrying RNA molecules to instruct people’s cells to produce proteins that will trigger anti-Covid antibodies and, hopefully, Covid immunity. The Tübingen, Germany-based CureVac got its start-up funding from investors who include Dietmar Hopp, one of the co-founders of the software company SAP (SAP).

CureVac says its Covid vaccine has produced positive results in the laboratory. Its development program has gotten grants from the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation as well as from the U.S. Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency.

At a Monday news conference, German Economy Minister Peter Altmaier said that his nation would get a 23% stake in CureVac for its 300 million euro investment—with the new shares coming from the company, not existing stockholders. The government investment values CureVac at $1.5 billion.

The U.S. government has become the world’s biggest backer of Covid-19 vaccine projects, and some European beneficiaries have acknowledged that the funds come with an understanding that America will get an allocation of any resultant production.

In the backlash after Washington’s apparent attempt to buy into CureVac, Germany adopted a rule that its government would have to approve any such investments. Altmaier has said that Germany aims to strengthen its country’s biotech industry.