BioNTech’s CEO Strikes Sober Note Amid Vaccine Scramble, While Warning It Could Take a Decade to Beat Covid-19
The CEO of the German biotech BioNTech told The Wall Street Journal in an interview published Friday morning that his company’s Covid-19 vaccine, which it is developing in collaboration with Pfizer, could be ready to submit for regulatory approval by the end of this year. That’s a less aggressive timeline than Pfizer has laid out in recent days.

Pfizer (ticker: PFE) executives have said they hope to submit the vaccine for Food and Drug Administration approval by the fall. In an interview with Time magazine published Thursday, Pfizer CEO Albert Bourla said the company should be able to submit the vaccine for FDA approval in September. And Mikael Dolsten, Pfizer’s chief scientific officer, said on an investor call on July 1 that the company planned to file for approval in Oct. 2020.

In a statement to Barron’s on Friday afternoon, Pfizer said there was no change to the timeline its executives had laid out. “As previously stated, Pfizer and BioNTech are working together on an expedited timeline to bring a safe and efficacious vaccine to the people who need it the most as early as October,” the company said. BioNTech (BNTX) did not respond to a request for comment on the discrepancy.

But the more cautious remarks to the Journal from the BioNTech CEO, Ugur Sahin, reflect what appears to be the executive’s generally sober outlook on the Covid-19 pandemic. Sahin also told the paper that, despite progress from various vaccine programs, it could take a decade to beat Covid-19.

“I assume that we will only be done with this virus when more than 90% of the global population will get immunity, either through infection or through a vaccine,” Sahin told the Journal.

Shares of BioNTech were up 3.8% in premarket trading while S&P 500 future were flat. The stock has climbed 93.7% so far this year. Of the eight analysts tracked by FactSet who cover BioNTech, six rate it a Hold.

Pfizer shares, meanwhile, were up 0.8% in premarket trading. The stock is down 14.6% this year, and trades at 12.7 times earnings expected over the next 12 months, according to FactSet, below its five-year average of 13.4 times earnings. Of the 16 analysts tracked by FactSet who cover Pfizer, half rate it a Buy, while half rate it a Hold.

Pfizer and BioNTech unveiled promising data on their Covid-19 vaccine on July 1, which showed that all 24 patients who received lower doses of the vaccine in a Phase 1 trial developed neutralizing antibodies at a level about two times higher than those found in patients who had recovered from Covid-19 infections. The companies are planning to begin a Phase 2b/3 efficacy study involving up to 30,000 patients as soon as this month.