Trump Signs 4 Executive Orders Aimed at Lowering Drug Prices. What to Know.

President Donald Trump on Friday signed four executive orders geared toward lowering drug pricing for Americans.

Drugmakers have until Aug. 24 to come up with a solution before the U.S. implements an International Price Index, or IPI. Such a model would cap drug prices based on what they sell for in economically comparable countries, and is fiercely opposed by drug companies.

The specter of drug price reform has weighed on big pharmaceutical stocks for years, and while it was a major subject in the Democratic primary debates as recently as January, attention had drifted from the issue in recent months. The orders themselves were expected, though Trump’s challenge to pharmaceutical companies CEOs to come up with something better by late August could ignite intrigue in the coming weeks.

The White House said the first order directs federally qualified health centers to pass discounts on insulin and EpiPens that they get from drug companies to low-income Americans. The second enables states, wholesalers, and pharmacies to import prescription drugs from other countries, like Canada.

The third order seeks to eliminate “secret deals between drug manufacturers and pharmacy benefit manager middlemen.” The fourth order issues an ultimatum to drug manufacturers and Congress. They have until Aug. 24 to come up with a plan to lower the costs on medications. If not, the order would cap prices for some Medicare patients based on prices in economically comparable countries.

“This is the key variable,” wrote Jefferies trading desk analyst Jared Holz of the fourth executive order in a note out shortly after the announcement. “Sounds like the government is willing to work around IPI if other strategies are agreed to. Thus, perhaps the most negative of the above orders has a chance to be dampened down.”

RBC Capital Markets analyst Brian Abrahams wrote in a note Friday that the actual implementation of such orders would be challenging. He doesn’t see a material impact in the near-to-mid-term, “as we believe they are likely geared more towards deriving campaign talking points rather than producing tangible, material effects.”

Still, Abrahams does believe headlines could hit the biotech sector following its 2020 run. Such stocks fell on Friday, as reports of the actions surfaced. Pfizer (ticker: PFE), Merck (MRK), and Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) all closed down on Friday.