Tesla, Space Stocks Are Soaring. China Tensions, Protests Fail to Move the Dow.

U.S. stock-index futures held their ground, wavering near the break-even line following the weekend of protests and violence, not to mention American-Chinese tensions and space travel.

Monday morning, Dow Jones Industrial Average futures were up about 0.1%. S&P 500 futures are flat, and futures on the Nasdaq Composite futures were down about 0.3%.

Overseas stocks were mostly in the green. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index, for instance, was up 3.4%. Europe’s FTSE 100 Index gained 1.2% and the pan-European Stoxx 600 index was 0.8% higher.

The SpaceX/NASA rocket launch was the good news from the weekend. The launch, watched by millions, signals a new era in space technology and space investing. Saturday was the first time NASA astronauts traveled to space on commercially built equipment.

Tesla (ticker: TSLA) CEO Elon Musk leads both companies. SpaceX is privately held, but Tesla stock is getting a little bump from the positive outcome. Shares were up about 2.6% in premarket trading.

Other space stocks are up too. Aerojet Rocketdyne (AJRD) shares rose about 1.4%. Satellite company Maxar Technologies (MAXR) stock gained 4.5% and stock in the space tourism company Virgin Galactic (SPCE) was up 8.5%.

The remaining news was less positive.

For starters, Pfizer (PFE) shares fell about 6% after the company announced a Phase 3 efficacy trial for a breast-cancer treatment isn’t likely to succeed.

What’s more, China has stopped importing U.S. soybeans, presumably in retaliation by recent rhetoric from the Trump administration over Beijing’s handling of Covid-19 and move to take greater control of Hong Kong. Stock in Deere (DE), the heavy-equipment company, fell about 0.7%. No one, it appears, expects tensions to spin out of control. Soybean futures contracts were down only a fraction.

The biggest news—by a mile—are protests that begin in Minnesota over outrage caused by the death of George Floyd, and have spread across the U.S., even reaching international centers such as London and Berlin.

Citigroup (C) CFO Mark Mason wrote “I can’t breath” 10 times at the top of a corporate blog post Friday evening. It was a bold move. Corporations don’t always weigh in definitively on social issues. The stock was up about 1.7% in premarket trading.

It feels as if stock-market volatility should be spiking, but it isn’t. Wall Street filters most news through the lens of share prices, assessing its likely impact on future corporate profits. The market can do a little more than that, but not much.