Mylan Stock Is Falling Because the Upjohn Deal Won’t Soon Help Earnings, Analyst Says


One of the biggest questions for biopharma investors in 2020 is what to make of the big new generic-drug company being formed by the merger Mylan with Pfizer’s off-patent drug division. On Monday, SVB Leerink analyst Ami Fadia published her answer, and it wasn’t rosy.

Fadia downgraded Mylan (ticker: MYL) to Market Perform from Outperform, writing that she sees earnings for the combined companies dropping for the next two years.

“We do not see the combined business starting to grow until 2023, which we believe is not fully understood,” Fadia wrote. “This is because we see the business deteriorating faster than realization of cost synergies and we do not see revenue synergies anytime soon.”

Fadia set a price target of $24, down from her previous price target of $27. The stock closed on Friday at $21.85.

Shares of Mylan were tumbling Monday morning, down 3.3% to $21.13 in early trading, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average was down 1.4%. Mylan didn’t immediately respond to request for comment on the downgrade.

The back story. Mylan is set to merge with Pfizer’s (PFE) generic-drug unit, called Upjohn, later this year to become a new generic-drug company called Viatris. The merger marks a major turning point for Pfizer, but also for Mylan. In early January, Piper Sandler analyst David Amsellempublished a cautionary note on the merger, giving Mylan a Neutral rating. Mylan was up 8.7% this year as of Friday’s close, but down 24.8% over the past 12 months.

What’s new. In her Monday note, Fadia warned that the Upjohn part of the business faces serious challenges, attributable in large part to changes in how the Chinese government buys drugs.

“We believe the potential impact from China’s [volume based procurement] program for Lipitor and Norvasc is underestimated by both Pfizer and the Street, with potentially a $1.3 [billion] revenue headwind in 2020, or $200-600 [million] more than Pfizer’s guidance,” Fadia wrote.

She also wrote that Mylan’s own earnings would see only slow growth in the coming years. “We see the Mylan standalone business growing low single digits at best through 2023 with all key major products declining and no clear sustainable growth drivers in the pipeline,” Fadia wrote.

Still, she said that there is hope for the stock. “We acknowledge that this merger could become accretive to Mylan’s shareholders if Viatris can pull off revenue synergies faster and/or realize more cost synergies, but the potential scope and timeline of such synergies so far remains unclear,” she wrote.

Looking forward. Fadia argued that the current price of Mylan factors into the merger. “We forecast revenue decline of 13% in 2020 and 3% in 2021 for Viatris, followed by a relatively flat top-line in 2022-2023.”

Pfizer reports earnings Tuesday morning and investors could learn more about the merger on a conference call scheduled to begin at 10 a.m. Eastern time.
