FedEx, Micron, June Jobs Data, Fed Minutes, and More for Investors to Watch This Week

Several notable companies report earnings this week, before U.S. markets close on Friday in observance of Independence Day. Micron Technology opens the week on Monday, followed by FedEx and Conagra Brands on Tuesday. On Wednesday, Constellation Brands and General Mills both report.

At a shareholder meeting on Tuesday, Mylan will seek approval for its merger with Pfizer’s  generic-drug business, called Upjohn. The deal had been delayed from its original timeline by the economic and business impact of  the coronavirus pandemic.

The economic-data highlight of the week will be Thursday’s June employment report. The Bureau of Labor Statistics is expected to show an increase of 2.5 million nonfarm payrolls, and an unemployment rate of 12.3%. 

Other indicators out this week include the Conference Board’s June Consumer Confidence Index on Tuesday and the Institute for Supply Management’s Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index for June on Wednesday. The Federal Reserve’s interest rate-setting committee also releases the minutes from its June policy meeting on Wednesday.

Monday 6/29
Micron Technology reports fiscal third-quarter results.

The National Association of Realtors reports its Pending Home Sales Index for May. Economists forecast a sharp rebound of 25%, to an 89 reading; in April, the index slumped by 21.8%. An index of 100 is equal to the average level of contract activity during 2001, which was the first year to be examined.

The Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas releases its Texas Manufacturing Outlook Survey for June. The index is expected to show a continuing bounceback in the manufacturing sector, with a minus 30 reading, after registering minus 74 and minus 49.2 in April and May, respectively.

Tuesday 6/30
Conagra Brands and FedEx report earnings.

Mylan holds an extraordinary shareholder meeting to seek approval for the proposed merger with Upjohn, a division of Pfizer that sells off-patent drugs, largely in emerging markets. The merger was announced 11 months ago and had been expected to close in mid-2020, but has been delayed to the second half of the year, due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic.

The Institute for Supply Management releases its Chicago Purchasing Managers’ Index for June. The consensus call is for a 42 reading, up from May’s 32.3, which was the lowest since March 1982.

The Conference Board releases its Consumer Confidence Index for June. Expectations are for a 90 level, up from 86.6 in May.

Wednesday 7/1
ADP releases its National Employment Report for June. Economists forecast a gain of 2.9 million private-sector jobs, a huge improvement on May’s 2.8 million decline.

Constellation Brands and General Mills report quarterly results

The Federal Open Market Committee releases the minutes of its June monetary-policy meeting.

ISM releases its Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index for June. The consensus forecast is for a 49 reading, up from 43.1 in May and 41.5 in April.

Thursday 7/2
The Bureau of Labor Statistics releases the jobs report for June. Economists expect it to show that 3 million nonfarm jobs were added, and that the unemployment rate fell to 12.2% from 13.3%. This follows a 2.5 million gain in nonfarm payrolls in May—a stunning number, as nearly all forecasts had called for a large decline.

The Department of Labor reports on initial jobless claims for the week ended on June 27. Jobless claims have fallen for 12 consecutive weeks, since peaking at 6.9 million in late March, but remain well above one million—a record high before this year.

Friday 7/3
U.S. equity and fixed-income markets are closed in observance of Independence Day.