Pfizer, BioNTech Are Surging Because the FDA Fast Tracked Their Covid-19 Vaccines

Shares of Pfizer and American depositary receipts of German biotech BioNTech jumped on Monday after the companies announced that the Food and Drug Administration had granted Fast Track designation to two Covid-19 vaccines that the companies are developing.

The FDA grants Fast Track designation to speed review and approval of experimental drugs that could fill unmet medical needs. The Pfizer (PFE) and BioNTech (BNTX) aren’t the first to receive the nod: In May, Moderna (MRNA) said that the FDA had given its experimental Covid-19 vaccine a Fast Track designation.

That the FDA is eager to speed development and approval of promising Covid-19 vaccines should not be surprising. But investors took heart at the positive news on an otherwise grim Monday morning, after a weekend in which the number of confirmed Covid-19 cases in the U.S. grew by more than 118,000.

BioNTech ADRs were up 10% in Monday morning trading, while shares of Pfizer were up 2.5%.

“The FDA’s decision to grant these two Covid-19 vaccine candidates Fast Track designation signifies an important milestone in the efforts to develop a safe and effective vaccine against SARS-CoV-2,” Pfizer’s senior vice president for global regulatory affairs, Peter Honig, in a statement.

The news comes two weeks after Pfizer and BioNTech announced promising data on one of the four Covid-19 vaccines they are developing, known as BNT162b1. The Fast Track designation covers BNT162b1 and another vaccine, called BNT162b2. Both of the vaccines are messenger RNA-based vaccines; each encodes for proteins that mimic different pieces of the virus that causes Covid-19.

Late last week, in an interview with The Wall Street Journal, BioNTech’s CEO warned that it could take a decade to beat Covid-19.

Pfizer says the companies are aiming to have a vaccine ready by October. They plan to begin a 30,000-patient Phase 2b/3 trial as early as this month, and to manufacture 100 million doses of the two-dose vaccine by the end of this year.

Pfizer stock is down 13.7% so far this year. Shares trade at 12.8 times earnings expected over the next 12 months. That’s slightly below the stock’s five-year average of 13.4 times earnings. Of the 16 analysts tracked by FactSet who follow Pfizer, half rate it at Hold, while half rate it at Buy.

BioNTech ADRs, meanwhile, are up 107.7% this year. Of the eight analysts who follow BioNTech tracked by FactSet, six rate it at Hold and two rate it at Buy.