Salesforce Rises After It’s Included in the Dow. But Earnings Drive the Stock Even More.
Salesforce.com was a lucky winner of the Dow Jones Industrial Average lottery this past week. Salesforce joined Amgen and Honeywell International in the Dow Jones Industrial Average, replacing Exxon Mobil, Raytheon Technologies, and Pfizer. The Dow is trying to raise the technology portion of the index after Apple’s 4-for-1 stock split.

The process of getting into the 30-stock Dow isn’t really a lottery—S&P Dow Jones Indices, the committee behind the Dow, has its reasons. The committee appeared to classify Salesforce, a software company, as a technology stock, while it saw the much larger Facebook and Alphabet as communications companies. No matter, the Monday announcement of a revamped Dow sent Salesforce shares up 3.6% on Tuesday. Few investors were counting on an index-inclusion bump, so that resembled found money.

But then, on Wednesday, the shares exploded another 26%, this time fueled by another factor: The company crushed its second-quarter earnings, reporting a profit of $1.44 a share, while analysts were looking for 67 cents.

Some of the earnings beat came from gains on Salesforce’s 12% holding of nCino, a financial-technology company that offers what it calls “cloud-based banking.” NCino is up about 170% since its initial public offering on July 14, accounting for about three-quarters of Salesforce’s earnings surprise. But Salesforce’s base software business beat expectations by about 20 cents on its own.

It’s comforting that earnings still matter on the Street. Factors like index inclusions can produce a one-day pop, but fundamentals win out.

Last Week
A Dow Facelift
The Dow Jones industrials announced a shakeup, swapping out Exxon Mobil, Raytheon Technologies, and Pfizer for Salesforce.com, Amgen, and Honeywell. The reason: Apple’s 4-for-1 stock split, which will reduce exposure to information technology. Housing remained hot, but consumer confidence sank again. On the week, the revamped Dow the Dow rose 2.59% to 28,653.87; the S&P 500 soared 3.26% to 3508.01; and the Nasdaq Composite surged 3.39% to 11695.63. Japanese stocks fell on news that Prime Minister Shinzo Abe would resign for health reasons.

Digital Jackson Hole
Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell led off a virtual Jackson Hole confab, presenting a change in policy on inflation, the first since inflation targeting at 2% began in 2012. The new policy pulls back from preemptively raising rates to head off inflation and indicates a long period of low rates, prioritizing jobs over inflation.

Covid, Still There
The number of new cases dropped below the 50,000 a day rate, as the death toll neared 180,000. The Food and Drug Administration authorized emergency use of convalescent plasma as an anti-Covid therapy after the president called for it on Twitter. Infectious-disease czar Dr. Anthony Fauci warned against rushing to approve a Covid vaccine. Schools, particularly colleges, struggled with spikes even before classes resumed.

The GOP Case
Republicans gathered both virtually and in-person for their convention. President Trump spoke all four days, first in Charlotte, N.C., where the nominating vote took place, then, to some controversy, from the White House. The GOP did not pass a party platform, opting to support Trump instead.

Unrest in Kenosha
Protests and violence broke out in Kenosha, Wis., after police shot an unarmed Black man in the back, paralyzing him. Two protesters were killed and one wounded after a man with a rifle opened fire. Protests by NBA players—sparked by a Milwaukee Bucks decision to boycott a playoff game—quickly spread to other professional sports.

Carving Up TikTok
TikTok parent ByteDance filed a legal challenge to Trump’s executive order that would ban it from operating in the U.S. without new ownership. A group of ByteDance investors, including General Atlantic and Sequoia Capital, joined efforts to buy the U.S. unit, along with Oracle, Twitter, and Microsoft (with Walmart ) and recently hired CEO Kevin Mayer quit. The Wall Street Journal reported that Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg urged the administration to rein in TikTok rather than go after Facebook.

One-Two Punch
Two hurricanes hit the Louisiana and Texas coast. The second, Laura, had Category 4 winds before weakening.