The Dow’s Rally Above 27,000 Was About More Than Pfizer’s Vaccine
The Dow Jones Industrial Average finished the day above 27,000 after Pfizer (PFE) announced that it had struck a deal with the U.S. government for the Covid-19 vaccine it’s developing with BioNTech SE (BNTX). And any news that suggests a vaccine is getting close to the stock market has to be good.

That was only the most prominent headline. Less recognized, but perhaps just as important were earnings from hospital operator HCA Healthcare (HCA). It wasn’t the numbers themselves—though those were good enough to send the stock up 12% on Wednesday—but what the company said about the spread of coronavirus. “The CEO of HCA Healthcare said that the number of COVID patients in HCA hospitals in Texas has peaked and is starting to decline,” writes Stephen Stanley, chief economist at Amherst Pierpont. “He also said that Florida is about a week behind, as cases there are flattening out. That assessment largely bears out my read of the data for Texas and is actually a bit more positive on Florida.”

The Nasdaq Composite finished the day up 0.2%, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 0.6%, and the S&P 500 rose 0.6%.

Market breadth was also good: More than 70% of the S&P 500’s stocks finished higher, while 23 of the Dow’s 30 stocks finished in the green. That’s the kind of breadth that was lacking on Monday, when the Nasdaq rose 2.5% and the Dow finished flat. On that day, just 30% of S&P 500 stocks finished higher.

Speaking of breadth, the NYSE Cumulative Advance/Decline Line—a technical measure that grows or shrinks each day based on whether more stocks rose or fell—hit an all-time high on Tuesday and continued rising on Wednesday, suggesting that the underlying market is stronger than it looks.

The only problem: Better breadth isn’t always good news for the market when the S&P 500 is 3.5% or more below its all-time high. “While it’s always tempting to think that a breakout in the Advance/Decline Line is a sign that liquidity is plentiful and it’s only a matter of time before the S&P gets pulled to a new high as well, it took a median of 83 trading days before it did so,” writes Sundial Capital Research’s Jason Goepfert. “Its forward returns were mediocre at best, with most time frames showing below-average results...and an uninspiring risk/reward ratio.”

At least mediocre is better than terrible.