Hope for a Vaccine and Strong Earnings Is Sending Stocks Higher

Markets are on the rise to start the week as investors hope that corporate profits will provide some much-needed good news.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average was up 1.6% in late morning trading, while the S&P 500 was 1.3% higher. The Nasdaq Composite had gained 1.8%.

The coronavirus pandemic continues to rage through the U.S., but that’s not new, although the case numbers continued to march ever higher. Monday is one of the days that the market prefers to be hopeful.

“Despite the negative coronavirus headlines, investors seem to remain focused on the next round of stimulus from Washington and a potential vaccine for coronavirus,” wrote Piper Sandler’s Technical Market Strategist Craig Johnson. He said the “combination of unprecedented global monetary and fiscal stimulus continues to underpin markets, and the beat of the economic recovery is getting louder. Hence, we believe equities will continue to climb the proverbial wall of worry.”

Indeed, Pfizer (ticker: PZE) was up 4% and BioNTech (BNTX) gained 19.3% after the government fast-tracked their potential Covid-19 vaccines.

Earnings season begins in earnest this week.

“As equity markets across the globe move higher despite a dramatic rise in coronavirus cases in the U.S., this week’s earnings reports will provide a fresh look at the impact of the pandemic on corporate fundamentals,” wrote David O’Malley, chairman and chief executive officer at Penn Mutual Asset Management. “With many companies eliminating earnings guidance due to uncertainty, the potential exists for large surprises. I’ll be watching the bank earnings closely for more information about the impact on the overall economy.”

As for individual stocks, Darden Restaurants (DRI) was up 3.7% following an upgrade from J.P. Morgan, which says the company is using the time lost to pandemic closures to make big changes.

PepsiCo (PEP) gained 2.5% after reporting upbeat earnings and announcing it will return $7.5 billion to shareholders.

Tesla (TSLA) rallied 14.3%, taking the electric-vehicle company’s valuation to $300 billion.

ViacomCBS (VIAC) is rising 1.1% after Goldman Sachs initiated coverage of the stock with a Buy rating. The firm also likes Walt Disney (DIS), up 0.4%.

