The Economy May Be Struggling, but the Pet Business and the Stock Market Keep Running Strong

My wife tells me that Ginger is in perfect health.

This was confirmed on Wednesday during a $228 trip to the veterinarian for shots for rabies, Lyme disease, and dog influenza, which Google confirms is a thing; bordetella, which I could have sworn was a cold cut; and distemper, which I think I’m coming down with, even though I’m told the science doesn’t support it.

Apparently, Ginger’s fine showing is attributable to her daily play dates with Paprika from across town, plus her breed-specific, raw-food diet. The centerpiece of that: $5-a-pound cartons of organic chicken or grass-fed beef topped off with ingredients like decaffeinated kombucha and goat’s milk whey.

In related news, the chicken I eat costs $2 a pound, and I’m running four years late for my annual physical.

The pet economy is booming, I wrote here in May 2019, roughly when Ginger left the pound for the comfort of my expense statement. Since then, the ProShares Pet Care exchange-traded fund (ticker: PAWZ) has returned a frisky 45%, versus 25% for the S&P 500 index.

The pandemic doesn’t seem to have hurt business. In a recent survey, only 15% of pet owners said that current economic conditions have made them spend less on their furry friends, while 21% reported spending more.

Kristin Peck, CEO of Zoetis (ZTS), which makes animal medicine, tells me that there is a long trend of people worldwide having smaller families and spending more money on pets, and that now, the coronavirus pandemic has created a surge in animal adoptions and owner attention. “Maybe 50 years ago, your dog was in your backyard,” Peck says. “Then it moved into your house, and now it’s on your bed right next to you, so you notice more. And now you’re home 24/7 with that dog.”

Zoetis stock has multiplied six times in price since the company was spun out from Pfizer (PFE) in a 2013 stock offering. This year, Peck’s first as chief, shares are up 20%. Earlier this month, the company reported second-quarter financial results that trounced Wall Street’s estimates. Revenue from what the company calls companion animals, including pets, increased 11% from a year earlier, or 13% ignoring currency swings, to $882 million. The U.S. led growth with a 19% improvement.

New products helped, especially Simparica Trio, a monthly chewable for dogs to kill fleas and ticks and prevent heartworm disease. Other top growers included dermatology drugs. Zoetis has a high-tech treatment called a monoclonal antibody for itchy dogs. Regeneron Pharmaceuticals (REGN) has one of those for itchy people. The two companies have a research agreement.

Zoetis also has a livestock business. The company was once described to me as half pet-ables and half edibles, but the two sides are no longer equal. This past quarter, livestock revenue declined 10%, or half as much in constant currency, to $649 million. When restaurants closed, meatpackers had to adjust to changing demand for certain cuts of meat, and that has created a backlog of animals.

Long term, the livestock business has grown at about 5% a year, and Peck expects to return to that trend after the pandemic.

What about the new crop of meatless burgers that are more convincing than the veggie pucks of yore? I asked. They’re growing quickly, but the numbers are small enough to be dwarfed by rising demand for meat and milk from the world’s growing middle class, she says.

How expensive are Zoetis shares? I wish you hadn’t asked. They go for 45 times this year’s projected earnings—ambitious, even considering that earnings are expected to increase by double-digit percentages in each of the next two years.

Ginger, I can tell, feels that I worry too much about valuation, and that secular growth is worth paying up for. Maybe, but in fairness, she seems like a bit of a momentum chaser.

Has the stock market bounced back too quickly? The S&P 500, up 51% from its March low, is close to hitting a fresh all-time high. It’s encouraging that over the past three months, the country has added back millions of jobs lost to quarantining, but over the past six months, we’re still down close to 13 million jobs.

That’s the worst drop in more than 80 years of data. Since the downturn, I’ve written that investors should stick with stocks and diversify, mostly because I can’t figure out how to predict the short-term direction of the stock market, so I always guess up. But that doesn’t mean I can’t pause from time to time for self-doubt, restrained panic, or aimless whining.

I did all three recently during a chat with Jonathan Golub, chief U.S. equity strategist for Credit Suisse. I would not describe him as overly bullish. For example, the consensus view is that U.S. companies will bounce back to record earnings next year. Golub predicts that will take at least until 2022, based on the average time that profit rebounds have taken in the past, and the severity of the current recession. But he recommends that investors stick with stocks.

Interest rates are likely to remain ultralow for the foreseeable future, Golub says, and investor fears over companies falling into financial distress have been offset by the “unlimited wallet” of the Federal Reserve buying bonds and Congress spending on relief. Meanwhile, the largest U.S. tech companies, which have driven market gains, seem to be following their own economy. “They’re not doing well in their stock performance because speculative money is going in there and there’s a speculative frenzy,” Golub says. “They’re literally out-earning everybody else.”

The S&P 500 recently traded at 26 times this year’s depressed earnings, or 21 times last year’s earnings, versus an average historical level of closer to 15 times earnings. Get used to it, Golub says. “For the next decade, we’re going to live with stock multiples in the mid-20s, even though that seems historically very high, and that is going to be really uncomfortable for professional investors.”

Another decade of valuation discomfort? For a minute there, I was worried that his outlook wasn’t going to cheer me up.