Merck Dives Into Covid-19 Fray With Two Vaccines and One Antiviral

As the world’s drugmakers announced effort after effort to develop drugs and vaccines to confront the Covid-19 pandemic, the big pharma firm Merck had been conspicuous among its big pharma peers for its silence.

That changed on Tuesday morning, as the company unveiled a barrage of Covid-19 programs: Two experimental vaccines and one experimental treatment.

“Our scientists have been engaged and focused on Covid-19 from the time we learned about it,” CEO Ken Frazier said in an interview Monday night.

Frazier said Merck (ticker: MRK) had spent time studying the basic biology of the virus, and had specific criteria for its vaccine candidates—criteria many of the leading Covid-19 vaccine programs don’t meet. Merck wanted a vaccine that could be delivered in a single dose. And, in contrast to companies like Pfizer (PFE) and Moderna (MRNA), which are developing Covid-19 vaccines based on highly novel technologies, it wanted a candidate based on a proven platform.

“We’ve got to immunize seven billion people on the planet,” Frazier said. “If you have a dose that gives you a high amount of neutralizing antibodies with a single dose, that’s a much better, more simple to deploy vaccine, than one that requires multiple doses.”

Frazier outlined three new programs. They are:

— A collaboration with IAVI, a nonprofit scientific research group, to develop a vaccine based on the same platform Merck used for the Ebola vaccine the Food and Drug Administration approved in late 2019.

— A vaccine already under development by Themis Bioscience, a private Austrian biotech that Merck said Monday it would acquire for an undisclosed amount.

— An oral antiviral it will develop in collaboration with a private biotech called Ridgeback Biotherapeutics.

It’s hard to say what these announcements could mean for Merck’s stock. Pharmaceutical and biotech stocks have had a tendency in recent weeks to move dramatically on Covid-19 vaccine news, even when the fundamental implications for the business were uncertain. Frazier said that the announcements will have no impact on the company’s 2020 financial guidance or its earnings, and that the company’s intent was to provide broad, affordable access if the programs are successful.

“We simply would try to make sure we can make this available to whoever needs it,” Frazier said. “We intend to make it broadly available in a way that people can afford wherever they are in the world.”

Shares of Merck are down 16% so far this year as of the close of business on Friday, worse than both the S&P 500, which is down 8.5%, and the S&P 500 Pharmaceuticals index, down 3.6%. The company has been hit particularly hard by the pandemic, and cut its guidance for the full 2020 fiscal year, as its pharmaceutical division relies largely on drugs administered by doctors, sales of which are down amid the cancellation of elective procedures.

Merck’s first Covid-19 vaccine program, the collaboration with IAVI, is in advanced preclinical development, with Phase 1 studies expected to start this year. Frazier would not say when he expects the vaccine to be available.

The vaccine uses the same technique Merck used in Ervebo, its Ebola vaccine. “We know the platform,” Frazier said. “We’ve used it. We know how to manufacture it.”

Ervebo and the experimental Covid-19 vaccine are based on an engineered version of a vesicular stomatitis virus. The company has manufactured roughly a million doses of Ervebo. “It’s a huge head start if you’ve handled the vaccine, you know how to scale it up,” Frazier said.

The Themis vaccine program, meanwhile, has been under development by Themis and the Institut Pasteur, with funding the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovation. That vaccine uses a modified measles virus as a viral vector. Frazier said that Phase 1 clinical trials of this vaccine are expected to begin within weeks.

Merck will also get the rest of Themis’s pipeline, which includes experimental vaccines for Zika and Chikungunya based on the same platform.

The Ridgeback Biotherapeutics antiviral, meanwhile, has already been tested in Phase 1 trials in Covid-19 patients. “We know from the work that’s been done already that it’s very potent, that it blocks the reproduction of many RNA viruses, including SARS-CoV-2,” Frazier said. He also said the drug can be made at a large scale, quickly, and that the company could make “billions” of doses if it works.

The fact that it can be delivered orally, in contrast to Gilead Sciences ’ (GILD) remdesivir, which is delivered intravenously, means it could be given far earlier in the course of the illness, potentially a large advantage.

“We’re very excited,” Frazier said. “We think we have a good chance of making these things work.”

Merck trades at 13.6 times earnings expected over the next 12 months, according to FactSet, just short of its 5-year average valuation of 15.2 times expected earnings. Of the 18 analysts covering Merck tracked by FactSet, 14 rate the stock Buy or Overweight. Their average target price is $93.27, well north of the stock’s closing price on Friday of $76.37.

Corrections & amplifications: Merck announced its new Covid-19 programs Tuesday morning and spoke with Barron’s on Monday night. An earlier version mistakenly said the company announced the news on Monday, and spoke with Barron’s on Sunday.

