U.S. Stocks Close Lower as Investors Digest Earnings

U.S. stocks fell into the closing bell on Tuesday after spending most of the session just below the break-even line. Investors spent the day digesting the implications of a wave of reported and coming earnings releases from companies like 3M, eBay, and Starbucks. Also in focus was the $1 trillion stimulus package Senate Republicans proposed Monday evening, which could lower the weekly unemployment supplement from $600 to $200 through September. Talks with Congressional Democrats continued on Tuesday.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed down 205 points, or 0.8%. The S&P 500 fell 0.7%, the Nasdaq Composite dropped 1.3%, and the Russell 2000 lost 1%.

Investors are also closely watching the coronavirus case numbers and progress on the vaccine front. Case growth in the U.S. has eased over the past week as hot spots in a number of states appear to have turned a corner. Reimposed lockdown measures are having an effect, but cases are still rising in most of the country.

On the bright side, drugmakers Moderna (ticker: MRNA) and Pfizer (PFE) each announced their coronavirus vaccine candidates have entered late-stage trials.

Senate Republicans on Monday released their $1 trillion stimulus package, setting the stage for negotiations with Democratic lawmakers. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and White House chief of staff Mark Meadows met with House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer on Monday night to kick off what could be a contentious series of talks.

The Federal Reserve’s monetary policy committee kicked off a two-day meeting on Tuesday. Economists expect no change in interest rates, but comments from Chairman Jerome Powell on Wednesday will get plenty of attention.

“At [Wednesday’s] press conference, the Fed might not announce immediate changes to its policy,” said Milan Cutkovic, market analyst at AxiCorp. “However, they are likely to acknowledge the deteriorating situation and pave the way for further action in September. This should boost stock markets and keep the U.S. dollar under pressure in the short-term.”

The main economic-data release on Tuesday was the Conference Board’s consumer confidence index for July. It slipped to 92.6, from June’s upwardly revised 98.3. The consensus estimate had been for a 95.5 reading. It wasn’t a huge month-over-month drop, but nonetheless showed that rising coronavirus cases across the U.S. had an impact on household sentiment.

The Nikkei 225 slipped 0.3% on Tuesday in Tokyo, but most other Asian markets gained, with the Kospi Composite rising 1.8% in Seoul and the Hang Seng adding 0.7% in Hong Kong.

European stocks ended mostly positive, bouncing back a day after the U.K. announced a quarantine on travelers from Spain following a rise in coronavirus cases. The Stoxx Europe 600 index and the U.K.’s FTSE 100 each added 0.4%, while Germany’s DAX slipped 0.03% and France’s CAC 40 closed down 0.2%. The euro also fell after reaching a nearly two-year high on Monday.

Oil prices wavered in and out of positive territory, with WTI crude eventually falling 1.3% to $41.04 a barrel and Brent crude losing 0.4% to $43.22 a barrel.

Gold, which has been on a streak of record highs, continued its march upward. The price rose 0.7% on Tuesday to settle at $1,944.70 an ounce, another record.

McDonald’s (MCD) shares fell 2.5% after management reported a 24% drop in comparable sales and weaker than expected profits in the most recent quarter. The fast-food chain was harmed by store closures and what it called “dramatic changes in consumer behavior” due to the coronavirus pandemic.

3M shares (MMM) lost 4.% in response to news of an unexpected drop in profits and sales. The company, which manufactures health care, industrial, and consumer products, said its results were “significantly impacted” by the coronavirus pandemic.

Harley-Davidson (HOG) shares fell 0.8% after management reported a loss of 60 cents a share last quarter. The company has been in a yearslong battle to woo younger riders. Its new CEO unveiled details of its “Rewire” strategy, which is intended to turn the motorcycle maker around, earlier this year.

Eastman Kodak (KODK) shares soared more than 200% after the legacy maker of photographic film received a $765 million loan from the U.S. government under the Defense Production Act. It will use the funds to redesign its supply chain to make ingredients used in pharmaceutical drugs.

