Drug-Price Increases Show Business as Usual Despite Public Pressure

The price of prescription drugs was the key political issue for the pharmaceutical industry last year, with members of Congress grilling biotech executives in public hearings and various efforts to rein in costs moving through the legislature.

Yet even with all the scrutiny, Jan. 1 came with a flurry of increases from drugmakers like Gilead Sciences (ticker: GILD), Biogen (BIIB), and Pfizer (PFE), according to a Reuters report.

In a note out Thursday morning, PiperJaffray analyst Christopher J. Raymond wrote that the Biogen price increases showed that the public pressure hasn’t yet moved companies away from their longstanding pricing strategies.

“Despite all the attention and threats—in terms of legislative action, executive action and other policy moves—drug pricing mechanisms and economics that have attracted so much negative attention in recent years remain very much intact,” wrote PiperJaffray’s Raymond.

Raymond wrote that Biogen increased the prices of its multiple- sclerosis drugs as of the start of the year, pushing the cost of Tecfidera up 6%, and the price of Tysabri up 3.5%. The prices of Avonex and Plegridy both rose 2%.

Tecfidera, Biogen’s top-selling drug, is facing an intellectual property challenge and will likely face competition from a generic version within three or four years, according to SVB Leerink analyst Geoffrey Porges.

Raymond wrote that Biogen’s commitment to price increases isn’t unusual. “To be clear, Biogen is likely not the only player to continue the practice of regular meaningful price increases, (indeed, [ AbbVie (ABBV)] took a 7.4% Humira increase, along with several other increases effective January 1 and we expect more increases across the industry to follow suit),” he wrote.

Shares of Biogen ended 2019 down 1.4% on the year. The company announced a $5 billion stock buyback in late December, which boosted the stock slightly, but management has been cutting its spending on research and development.

Investors are waiting to see whether Biogen receives Food and Drug Administration approval for aducanumab, an experimental Alzheimer’s drug. The stock plunged last March as the company announced it ended a Phase 3 study of the drug due to poor results. Shares rebounded in October when Biogen said a new analysis suggested aducanumab actually did work, and that it planned to submit it for FDA approval early this year.

Biogen will report its fourth-quarter and full-year results on Jan. 30. Shares were 0.4% lower early on Thursday.