Glaxo and Sanofi Will Sell 100 Million Covid-19 Vaccine Doses to the U.S. for Less Than $10.50 Each


The European drugmakers Sanofi and GlaxoSmithKline announced on Friday morning a $2.1 billion deal with the U.S. government for 100 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine the two companies are developing.

The companies said that “more than half” of the $2.1 billion was meant to support development and clinical trials of the experimental vaccine, while the rest would be for manufacturing and delivery of the 100 million doses.

Putting aside the funds meant to pay for the trials, the deal appears to price the vaccine at less than $10.50 a dose.

The news comes a week after Pfizer (PFE) and BioNTech (BNTX) said that the U.S. government had committed to buying 100 million doses of their experimental Covid-19 vaccine for roughly $20 a dose. Pfizer, which has not taken government money to develop their vaccine, has defended the notion that companies should make a profit on Covid-19 vaccines.

Glaxo (GSK) and Sanofi (SNY), by contrast, say that they do not intend to make a profit on their vaccine, but are accepting development funding from the government.

“Today’s investment supports the Sanofi and GSK adjuvanted product all the way through clinical trials and manufacturing, with the potential to bring hundreds of millions of safe and effective doses to the American people,” U.S. Department of Health and Human Services secretary Alex Azar said in a statement from the companies.

Though the vaccine under development by Sanofi and Glaxo vaccine is moving more slowly than the vaccines being developed by Pfizer and Moderna (MRNA), it is based on a more proven technology, the same one that Sanofi uses in one of its flu vaccines. The companies plan to begin a Phase 1/2 trial of the vaccine in September and a Phase 3 study by the end of the year. They hope to submit the vaccine for regulatory approval in the U.S. by the first half of next year.

The companies said that Sanofi would receive “the majority” of the $2.1 billion from the U.S. government, which has the option of buying an additional 500 million doses over the long term.

Earlier this week, Glaxo and Sanofi they had agreed to supply 60 million doses of the vaccine to the U.K. government. The financial terms of that arrangement were not disclosed.

The price point of somewhere below $10.50 is on the low end of Covid-19 vaccine prices under discussion. The Financial Times reported earlier this week that Moderna, which has also taken government funding to develop its vaccine, is seeking to sell the vaccine for between $25 and $30 per dose. The Financial Times also said that one analyst estimates that AstraZeneca (AZN) charged a group of European nations $3 to $4 per dose.

That same analyst, SVB Leerink’s Geoff Porges, wrote last week that a pricing level of $15 to $20 for a Covid-19 vaccine suggests a profit margin for vaccine makers of 60% to 80%.

Elected officials, meanwhile, have kept a close eye on news around vaccine pricing, and the issue threatens to refocus lawmakers on drug pricing.


