Europe’s Hamiltonian Moment

The European Union agreed to something big: a new Covid-19 economic stimulus package funded by debt backed by the EU and not by individual member countries. It’s the first EU backed bond issue on record.

It takes the EU fiscal relationship to the next level.

Alexander Hamilton did something very similar when the fledgling U.S. government absorbed the debt of the 13 states after the revolutionary war with Britain. That’s the part of the Hamilton musical where they sing “The Room Where It Happens.” (Now streaming on Disney+.)

Cooperation is positive. European stocks are rising, and U.S. stock futures are also in the green—and the wrinkles in the deal, such as a requirement that countries spend the money on green technology to battle climate change—could give wind, solar and electric vehicle stocks a bigger than average bump.

More than that, greater fiscal cooperation means that the odds of the EU lasting just went up. All that’s left for Europe is a duel, a book by Ron Chernow and a musical by Lin-Manuel Miranda.

—Al Root

***
EU Leaders Reach Rescue Deal After Marathon Talks
European Union leaders on Tuesday agreed to a €750 billion ($858 billion) stimulus plan designed to bolster economies across the 27-nation bloc that have been reeling from the pandemic.

After almost five days of heated talks in Brussels, Charles Michel, European Council president, announced the deal in a tweet at 5:31 a.m. local time on Tuesday. French President Emmanuel Macron declared it a “historic day for Europe.”
The recovery fund—the biggest joint borrowing ever agreed on by the EU—includes a €390 billion program of grants for EU member states most in need of financial aid and €360 billion in loans. The EU leaders also signed off on the bloc’s next seven-year budget which will be €1.074 trillion.
France and Germany were forced to back down from demanding €500 billion in grants after opposition from Austria, Denmark, the Netherlands and Sweden known as “the frugal states.”
What’s Next: The package still needs to be ratified by the European Parliament. “Nobody should take our European Union for granted,” European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said in a tweet. Member states still need to show how they plan to invest their funds which will need to be approved by their counterparts in the bloc. Given the fractious nature of the talks, tensions are likely to remain.

—Rupert Steiner and Lina Saigol

***
Details of Republican Coronavirus Relief Package Emerge
The Republican proposal for another relief bill will include direct payments, a payroll tax deferral, school funding tied to reopening classrooms, a liability shield for employers, and some unemployment benefits, The Wall Street Journal reported. It will cost about $1 trillion, less than the $3 trillion measure passed by House Democrats months ago.

The payroll tax cut, which President Donald Trump has reportedly demanded, would be a deferral. That means workers will have to pay back the taxes that fund Social Security and Medicare, thus reducing the cost while also reducing its stimulative impact.
There’s no new funding for state and city governments, which were allocated $1 trillion under the Democrats’ bill. Instead, the Journal reported that Republicans would give cities and states more flexibility in how they spend previous funding.
Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said in the Oval Office Monday that he and White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows will meet with Congressional Republicans Tuesday to go over the details.
Democratic Presidential nominee Joe Biden will unveil the details of his latest economic proposal, a $775 billion initiative to help families care for their children and older relatives during the pandemic, according to The Wall Street Journal. The plan would generate roughly 3 million caregiving and education jobs over the course of a decade, improve services offered under Medicaid, and increase the availability of child care, including offering free prekindergarten for all 3- and 4-year-olds.
President Trump will resume coronavirus press briefings again starting today at 5 p.m. The briefings were canceled months ago.
What’s Next: A deep gulf still separates the two parties. The most important question—how much the White House and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R., Ky.) are willing to cede to Democrats, if anything—is still unclear as coronavirus cases continue to surge across much of the country.

—Ben Walsh

***
Promising Results from Coronavirus Vaccine Trials
The race to develop a safe and effective coronavirus vaccine accelerated Monday with three separate candidates all reporting positive data—and one drugmaker sealing a distribution deal as well.

A Phase I/II study of 1,077 adults published in the peer-reviewed journal Lancet showed that a drug developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca produced immune responses that fend off the virus with no serious side effects.
A separate Phase II study of a vaccine developed by China’s CanSino Biologics and the Beijing Institute of Biotechnology, also published in Lancet, showed that most people who got the shot developed an immune response to Covid-19, although some experienced fever, fatigue, and pain at the injection site.
Pfizer and its German biotech partner BioNTech, announced a deal to distribute 30 million vaccine doses in the U.K. starting later this year. They also released new data from a study of 60 people reinforcing promising results from an earlier Phase I/II trial for their lead vaccine candidate.
What’s Next: The promising trials mean the first vaccines could be ready for mass production as early as September, but results from larger Phase III trials are needed before the vaccines are proven effective.

—Anita Hamilton

***
Nasdaq Hits Record, Led by Amazon
The tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite closed at a record on Monday. Some think a bubble is on the horizon.

The 2.5% gain came as only about half of the index components closed in the green. Amazon.com stock jumped $234.87, or 7.9%, to $3,196.84 following a pair of bullish analyst notes.
The gains continued after the bell when International Business Machines beat expectations for net revenue and adjusted earnings, though the Covid-19 pandemic dragged on results. Shares looked poised to gain today.
IBM’s Chief Financial Officer James Kavanaugh told Barron’s that the quarter brought a “marked inflection on accelerating digital transformation.”
What’s Next: A growing crowd, including tech entrepreneur Mark Cuban, point to similarities to the tech bubble in the late 1990s and early 2000s. Barron’s Deputy Editor Ben Levisohn joined the pack, writing that the Nasdaq “might not be as strong as it looks.”

—Connor Smith

***
How Europe Contained Its Coronavirus Epidemic
As novel coronavirus infections broke out in Wuhan, China this winter, Western European officials thought their robust health care systems would insulate them from viral inundation. Instead, Italy, France, Spain and the U.K. were ravaged by deadly outbreaks. Much of the continent appears to have the virus contained—at least for now.

The EU, with about 100 million more people than the U.S., now has a rolling 7-day average of 4,771 new cases a day, the Journal calculated, while the U.S. has almost 14 times that level.
Western European officials have largely gotten things right by banning mass gatherings and emphasizing social distancing, mask wearing, and overall hygiene. And residents are complying. Crucially, European nations did not begin phased reopenings until case counts were low.
Other measures helped, too. Germany ramped up its testing capacity to 1.1 million a week, while Italy has implemented widespread contact tracing. Even in Sweden, which never had a lockdown, numbers are holding steady as people voluntarily practice social distancing.
The numbers tell the story: France went from 2,004 fatalities on April 3 to no new deaths on July 19; Spain went from 1,198 deaths on April 1 to zero on July 19; and Italy went from a high of 969 deaths on March 27 to three on July 19.
“The fundamental difference between Europe and America is that Europe has taken the virus seriously, and America largely has not.” —Ashish Jha, director of the Harvard Global Health Institute.

What’s Next: With new cases resurging in Southeastern Europe after countries removed all coronavirus precautions, Western Europe is remaining vigilant by keeping mask restrictions in place even as daily death tolls remain close to zero.

—Ben Walsh