Pfizer Will Help Gilead Sciences Make Its Covid-19 Treatment, Remdesivir

It takes a month to make remdesivir, the experimental antiviral that got emergency approval in May as a treatment for Covid-19. To speed the drug’s availability, remdesivir’s developer, Gilead Sciences, said Thursday that it’s recruited more than 40 companies around the world to help make the stuff. Friday morning, the drug giant Pfizer proudly announced it was one of the firms that will manufacture remdesivir.

“From the beginning it was clear that no one company or innovation would be able to bring an end to the Covid-19 crisis,” said Pfizer Chief Executive Albert Bouria, in the announcement. Under the multiyear deal, Pfizer will make remdesivir at a McPherson, Kansas, plant specializing in sterile injectable drugs.

In Friday morning trading, Gilead stock (ticker: GILD) was up about 1%, to $69.43. Pfizer shares (PFE) were flat at $38.27. The big drugmaker’s shares are down slightly this year, while Gilead’s are up about 7%.

During the early spring spike in Covid hospitalizations, an early study by the U.S. National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases indicated that remdesivir helped patients get off respirators sooner. On May 1, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration authorized the emergency use of the product. The authorization is for hospitalized patients only. Gilead must still complete clinical studies and apply for FDA approval to market the drug. Japan and the European Union followed with their own conditional approvals. More recent studies concluded that remdesivir reduces deaths among hospitalized Covid patients.

On Thursday, Gilead said the network it has built to make remdesivir has increased availability by 50-fold since January. By October, it expects to be able to keep up with global demand, producing more than 2 million treatment courses by year-end, and several million more in 2021, if needed. It licensed nine generic manufacturers to supply the world’s 127 lower-income countries.

Gilead donated the first 1.5 million doses it produced through June. Now, remdesivir is priced at $520 a vial for commercial payers in the U.S., and $390 for the government health systems in developed countries. A course of treatment usually requires 6 vials. Analysts think the product could be worth $3 billion in revenue for Gilead in this year’s second half.

