These 2 Stocks in the Dow — and General Electric — Have Declined for 8 Straight Days

Dow Jones Industrial Average components Boeing and Pfizer shares have declined for eight straight days. Stock in General Electric —a former Dow member—has declined for eight straight days as well. Is the ignominious run part of the market selloff, or is something deeper going on at these three firms?

It’s most likely the latter. Investors are turning “risk off,” in Wall Street parlance, reducing positions as coronavirus fears rise. Twenty-nine out of the 30 Dow components are down over the past eight days, and the Dow itself has fallen seven of the past eight days.

The three eight-day decliners—Boeing (ticker: BA), Pfizer (PFE), and General Electric (GE)—are suffering worse than the average stock. The trio has declined 11.1%, 9.6%, and 13% over the past eight days, respectively. The Dow is down 5% over the same span.

It’s a painful run, to be sure, but it isn’t the entire story. GE, for instance, is down only 1% over the past three months, just a little worse than the 1.5% gain of the S&P 500 over the same span.

Three Dow components— Home Depot (HD), Microsoft (MSFT), and McDonald’s (MCD)—managed to eke out gains Tuesday before dipping into the red. Home Depot stock is up 0.5% over the past eight days. That’s the one Dow component in the green. Microsoft and McDonald’s shares are down 1.1% and 7.2% respectively.

Over the past three months, all three stocks have been strong, rising 11.9%. 12.9%, and 13.7%, respectively.

The strongest stock in the Dow over the past eight days is Home Depot. The weakest is Cisco Systems (CSCO), down about 14.7%.

The strongest stock in the Dow over the past three months is McDonald’s. The weakest is Walgreens Boots Alliance (WBA), down about 20%.

This frames how the recent selloff has impacted Dow components. It also provides some context for, say, GE investors wondering why if something deeper is going on. It isn’t. The market is facing a lot of virus-related turmoil.

Hopefully, this information is something investors can look at to evaluate portfolio positions during, and after, the selloff.

The Dow is down 900 points, or 3.2%, in recent trading. The S&P is off 3.1%, and the Nasdaq Composite is down 2.7%.