Gates Pledges $1.6 Billion for Vaccines. What That Means for Covid-19 and Other Diseases.

The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation is pledging $1.6 billion to a global organization that provides vaccines to children in the poorest countries. Announcing the donation on Wednesday, Bill Gates said $100 million of that will fund Covid-19 vaccines, when safe and effective ones have been found.

“Right now we’ve got billions of people in lockdown because we don’t have a vaccine or cure for Covid-19,” the Microsoft co-founder said on a call with journalists. “The devastating impact of Covid-19 is a huge reminder of how vulnerable we are to disease.”

The Gates Foundation commitment coincides with a London summit meeting on Thursday for GAVI, the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization—which since 2000 has delivered vaccines against diseases including polio and measles to nearly 30 million children in developing countries. After the U.K. government, the Gates Foundation has been GAVI’s biggest supporter. The vaccine alliance hopes to secure a total of $7.4 billion for the next five years.

Vaccine manufacturers including GlaxoSmithKline (ticker: GSK), Pfizer (PFE) and Merck (MRK) have also supported GAVI’s work with donations and vaccine discounts. On Thursday, Merck promised half a million dollars and the expertise of its personnel to help the vaccine alliance vaccinate 84 million girls against the HPV virus.

Most of Wednesday’s news conference with Gates dwelt on the Covid-19 crisis. Reporters asked him about deals in which vaccine makers will give priority to their home countries or to wealthy funders such as the U.S. when delivering the first doses of a Covid vaccine.

Gates said it was OK to allocate some vaccine supply to countries that are funding the research and clinical trials needed to find successful vaccines for the whole world. The best assurance of equitable access for poor countries will be large-scale manufacturing, he said.

“If we can make over one to two billion doses a year, then the allocation problem is not super acute,” Gates said. “If you’re only able to make, say, a hundred million doses a year, then you have an almost impossible problem.”

So his foundation is putting its money and expertise into plans for scaling production. Gates said he was encouraged to see that pharmaceutical companies will offer their factories for the production of their rivals’ Covid-19 vaccines, if needed. On Thursday, the GAVI alliance is announcing a program that commits to buying Covid vaccines when they become available, as an incentive for manufacturers such as AstraZeneca (AZN) to invest in production capacity.

An unanswered scientific question is whether an injection and a booster would provide lasting immunity against the SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid. If frequent vaccinations are required, Gates fretted, then funding for poor countries won’t go as far.

Reporters also asked Gates about President Donald Trump’s recent decision to pull U.S. support from the World Health Organization. He noted that the U.S. Congress has been the world’s largest funder of programs to treat HIV and eradicate polio, so it will be important to see how Congress responds to Trump’s idea.

“I’m disappointed that they’re talking about pulling out,” Gates said. “I’m hopeful that it will turn into a desire for improvement, rather than a withdrawal.”