Facebook Stock Takes a Pounding. How to Play Its Likely Comeback.

Facebook just got its face ripped off.

On Friday, Facebook stock (ticker: FB) fell almost $20, some 8%, in a dramatic swoon as investors reacted to news about major advertisers such as Pfizer (PFE), VF Corp. (VFC), and Microsoft (MSFT) stepping away from the social-media platform. Facebook has been targeted by civil-rights organizations for helping propagate hate speech.

The stock has bounced around in recent trading as investors digest the boycott.

Earlier in June, the Anti-Defamation League, the NAACP, and other civil-rights organizations launched the #StopHateforProfit campaign, which asks large advertisers to pull their spending on Facebook for July. The groups are upset about the company’s alleged repeated failure to “meaningfully address the vast proliferation of hate on its platforms.”

The weakness in the stock creates an opportunity for investors to establish positions, or add to positions, in a top social-media company with a dominant position in digital advertising. The stock could weaken further, but Facebook realizes that it is facing another major crisis and that likely portends positive develops.

On Friday, Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s founder and CEO, hosted a 13-minute public livestream during an employee all-hands meeting. 

“The simple headline is that the company won’t remove the posts that violate its policies but it will alert users that they violate its policies,” Rohit Kulkarni, an MKM Partners analyst, advised investors in a Monday note.

Facebook’s stance echoes similar moves by Twitter (TWTR), which recently began adding labels to problematic tweets from President Donald Trump and others.

The story is far from over. Facebook’s stock surged from mid-March to late June, rising some 73%. We caught the rally and now recommend trading the stock once more during this difficult moment.

With the stock around $220, investors can sell the August $215 put option at $13.40 and buy the August $225 call option for $12.30. The trade essentially pays investors $1.10 to buy Facebook stock at $215 and to participate in rallies above $225. (Calls increase in value when a stock gains, while puts increase in value when a stock declines.)

During the past 52 weeks, the stock ranged from $137.10 to $245.19. Shares are up 7% this year and 13% over the past year.

The trade’s key risk is that the stock falls far below the put strike price, obligating investors to cover the put at a higher price or to buy the stock for more than its market price.

The risk reversal—that is, selling a put and buying a call with a higher strike price but the same expiration—expresses faith that Facebook develops meaningful standards for the platform. When that happens, the stock should pop higher, reinforcing Facebook’s dominance as a key way advertisers reach small- and midsize business and as the primary medium for mobile direct response ads.

The August expiration was chosen to capture Facebook’s release of second-quarter earnings, which should happen in late July.

The trade expresses a view that Facebook’s earnings won’t be terribly impacted by the boycott. MKM’s Kulkarni estimates that the near-term revenue risk is less than 5%.

As of now, he notes that Facebook’s earnings estimates imply 1% year-over-year growth in the second quarter and 7% in the third quarter. If the ad market recovers, investors may see the stock rally. The same is true if Facebook demonstrates a plan to address the concerns raised by civil-rights groups.

