Potential Gilead Blockbusters Were Rejected By the FDA. Why That’s the ‘Near-Worst-Case Scenario’ for the Stock.

The Food and Drug Administration decision to reject Gilead Sciences ’ application for a would-be blockbuster arthritis drug, announced Tuesday night, blindsided investors Wednesday morning, scrambling shares of a handful of major biopharma companies.

The drug, a so-called JAK inhibitor called filgotinib, was set to be a major product for Gilead (ticker: GILD). J.P. Morgan analyst Cory Kasimov wrote Tuesday night that he had previously estimated that the drug would bring in $2 billion per year in sales at its peak; FactSet consensus estimates have the drug hitting $989 million in sales by 2025.

Now, that’s all been thrown into question. Gilead said Tuesday evening that the agency had issued a so-called complete response letter to the company’s application for filgotinib, saying that it wanted data from ongoing studies on the drug’s impact on patients’ sperm counts before it made a final decision on the drug.

Cowen analyst Phil Nadeau wrote Tuesday night that the development delays filgotinib’s launch in the U.S. by at least a year.

Gilead stock was down 3.2% on Wednesday morning, while shares of GIlead’s partner on filgotinib, Galapagos (GLPG), were down 24.3%. Shares of AbbVie (ABBV), which sells Rinvoq, a member of the same class of medications as filgotinib, were up 1.3%, while shares of Pfizer (PFE), which also sell drugs of the same types, were up 0.3%. The S&P 500 was up 0.2%.

In a note out Tuesday night, Kasimov called the development a “near-worst-case scenario” and a “shock.”

In addition to the questions around the drug’s impact on sperm count, Gilead said that the FDA had “expressed concerns” about the risk/benefit profile of a 200 milligram dose of the drug.

“The potential lack of dosing flexibility could impact filgo’s competitive profile,” Kasimov wrote. “Further, this gives competitors another year in which to build on their market lead.”

Rheumatoid arthritis is an enormously competitive indication, given the large patient population. In a note Wednesday, Mizuho analyst Vamil Divan wrote that the FDA letter was a “clear positive” for AbbVie. He wrote that it’s also a positive for Pfizer, which sells a JAK inhibitor called Xeljanz, though he noted that Pfizer is also developing other JAK inhibitors, and said that he wonders “if the filgotinib news will make investors more cautious on the potential for those products in the U.S. market, given various safety concerns the FDA has raised over the broader class.”

For Galapagos, the European biotech working with Gilead, the picture is particularly concerning. “We continue to remain confident in the clinical profile of filgotinib, but we find regulatory decisions such as these very challenging to handicap,” wrote Cantor Fitzgerald analyst Eliana Merle in a note out Wednesday. Merle cut her price target on Galapagos to $134 from $192. The stock was trading at $142.10 on Wednesday morning. She maintained her Neutral rating.

In a statement Tuesday night, Gilead’s chief medical officer, Dr. Merdad Parsey, said that the company was disappointed, but still believes “in the benefit/risk profile of filgotinib in [rheumatoid arthritis].” Galapagos’s chief medical officer, Dr. Walid Abi-Saab, said that the letter was “very disappointing given the robust and comprehensive data package provided.”