Stocks Sink on Trump Tweets and Five More Things to Know

If it’s not one thing, it’s another.

It’s a complicated Thursday morning as earnings, tweets and commodity prices move stocks in, frankly, surprising directions.

Take earnings. Retailer L Brands (ticker: LB), along with travel booking platform Expedia (EXPE), reported dreadful numbers. Naturally their stocks are up in premarket trading. Take-Two Interactive Software (TTWO) absolutely crushed analyst estimates. So its shares are dropping.

If that isn’t strange enough, oil prices are up for a sixth straight day, and have gained 80% in May. Oil stocks are—wait for it—falling Thursday.

The one thing that does make sense is the reaction to President Donald Trump’s tweets. Trump criticized China for what he called “a massive disinformation campaign” and “trying desperately to deflect the pain and carnage that their country spread throughout the world.”

Strong words. And when the most powerful man in the world tweets people listen. Stock markets around the globe are falling Thursday morning.

The lesson from all this? In the short-term, expectations drive markets, and markets can get caught wrong-footed. But it’s what happens after that really matters.

—Al Root

***
More Pressure on China

The Senate unanimously passed a bill Wednesday that could lead Chinese companies whose shares trade on U.S. exchanges to be delisted. Alibaba Group (BABA) stock dipped 2% after the bill passed before gaining most of its losses and closing near flat on the day.

The bill requires foreign companies that list on U.S. stock exchanges to comply with American accounting rules.
The real twist of the regulatory knife, though, comes if a company does not abide by U.S. accounting norms. In order to remain U.S.-listed, they would then have to certify that they are not owned by a foreign government.
“It’s asinine that we’re giving Chinese companies the opportunity to exploit hardworking Americans.” – Senator John Kennedy (R., La.), a co-sponsor of the bill

What’s Next: The House has not scheduled a vote on the bill. While the process the bill lays out applies broadly to any foreign company, the target is clearly Chinese companies. They can’t always meet U.S. accounting standards and certifying that they are not owned by the government would be problematic for Chinese companies logistically given their often complex, opaque ownership structures, while the government would be unlikely to look kindly on such a declaration.

—Ben Walsh

***
The Fed Knows What You Know

Feeling nervous? Uncertain about the future? Certain that things are bad but unsure of just how bad? Well, you’ve got company in the members of the Federal Open Markets Committee.

The minutes for the central bank’s April 29 meeting show participants felt the “pandemic created an extraordinary amount of uncertainty and considerable risks to economic activity in the medium term.”
FOMC members were particularly worried about a second wave of coronavirus infections, which would prolong the economic pain caused by the pandemic because workers would be out of work for longer and companies could choose to further delay or cancel capital spending.
What’s next: We’ll get more data on the economic pain of the pandemic later today when the Department of Labor releases the latest initial jobless claims numbers. Economists expect 2.35 million initial claims from the week ended May 16, down from the nearly 3 million Americans the prior week. That would bring the number of Americans who have lost jobs since the coronavirus outbreak hit the U.S. to just under 39 million.

—Ben Walsh

***
Branding Safe Flying

For airlines, an image going viral is rarely a good thing these days. After a photo of a United Airlines (UAL) flight from Newark to San Francisco showing a packed plane ricocheted around the internet last week, United said Wednesday that it was teaming up with Cleveland Clinic and Clorox (CLX) on the airline’s cleaning and social distancing protocols.

The program is called “United CleanPlus” and will involve touchless kiosks, mandatory mask-wearing, plastic barriers at places like check-in counters, and providing sanitizing hand-wipes to customers.
The effort was announced the day after United’s competitor Delta (DAL) said it would re-start some domestic and international routes, and Southwest (LUV) said it had seen more ticket purchases than cancellations.
United hasn’t announced a plan to avoid crowded planes. A spokesman told Barron’s Wednesday that it’s “limiting” advance seat selections. But, he said “if there’s demand for seats, we’ll sell them.”
What’s Next: Paradoxically, the massive drop-off in airline passengers means that, in some cases, flights are more crowded. That’s because airlines have canceled routes and decreased service. And as much as airlines want to avoid damaging viral images that sap people’s will to fly, there’s a huge amount of air travel–from terminal drop-off to security–that airlines can’t control. 

—Ben Walsh

***
Federal Emergency Workers Assist With Michigan Floods

On top of the deadly coronavirus, Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer is now dealing with devastating floods in Midland, Mich., where two dams were breached.

The governor declared a state of emergency, and 10,000 people were forced to evacuate the area, which is two hours northwest of Detroit.
“It’s hard to believe that we’re in the midst of a 100-year crisis, a global pandemic, and that we’re also dealing with a flooding event that looks to be the worst in 500 years,” Whitmer said, according to The Wall Street Journal.
Dow (DOW), the chemical maker that’s headquartered in Midland, said the floodwater reached an on-site pond at its Midland headquarters.
What’s Next: President Donald Trump said teams from the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the military are on the ground in Michigan. Such organizations are already stretched dealing with the pandemic response. Meanwhile, Dow says there have been no reports that its products were released amid the flooding.

—Connor Smith

***
AstraZeneca Ready to Deliver Potential Covid-19 Vaccine in September

Astrazeneca (AZN), the U.K.’s largest pharmaceutical company, said Thursday it had secured orders for 400 million doses of a yet-unapproved vaccine it is currently developing with Oxford University, and could start delivering them in September.

The British drugmaker also said it has received $1 billion worth of funding from the U.S.’s Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority.
AstraZeneca cautioned that the vaccine might not work but said it would move to late-stage clinical trials involving 30,000 participants if early tests are encouraging.
Other drugmakers such as Pfizer (PFE), GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) and Sanofi (SAN.FR), and U.S. biotech company Moderna (MRNA), are also working on a Covid-19 vaccine.
What’s next: AstraZeneca’s (French) CEO Pascal Soriot was careful not to repeat the mistakeof his competitor Paul Hudson, the (British) CEO of French pharma giant Sanofi, who’d hinted that the U.S. might get preferential treatment for delivery of the vaccine. AstraZeneca pointed out in its release that it is working with international organizations on a “fair allocation and distribution of the potential vaccine around the world.”

—Pierre Briançon

***
Your Questions, Answered. On Monday, readers wrote in to ask whether now is a good time to buy a home. Here’s what MarketWatch’s real estate reporter had to say:

The coronavirus pandemic sent shock waves throughout the real-estate industry. But does that make now a good time to put in an offer on a property?

The answer to that question will largely depend on what you plan to do with the home — particularly if you’re an investor.

“It’s a good time to buy an investment property if you can find inventory at a good price,” said Daren Blomquist, vice president of market economics at real-estate website Auction.com.

But finding homes at a good price could be something of a challenge.