Coronavirus Means Fewer Stock Buybacks, Analyst Says. It Could Shake Up Biopharma.

As the federal government prepares to bail out industries amid the Covid-19 pandemic, stock buybacks are falling out of favor. One sector that does a lot of repurchases? The biopharma industry.

In a note out on Friday, SVB Leerink analyst Geoffrey Porges argued that share buybacks would face far more scrutiny after the current crisis, which could force biopharma executives to spend their cash in other ways.

“All such buybacks are likely to be more carefully assessed after this scrutiny, and indirectly this may influence biopharma management teams to be more inclined to invest in internal R&D, M&A, and even support sensible dividends,” Porges wrote.

Companies buy back shares to boost their stock prices, and are one way that companies return value to shareholders. According to Porges, biopharma as a whole spent $165 billion on share repurchases between 2017 and 2019. The biggest spenders, according to Porges’s data, were Amgen (AMGN), which bought back $28.6 billion in shares, and Pfizer (PFE), which bought back $26.1 billion.

The current furor over buybacks stems from plans to bail out industries such as the airlines, which spent heavily on share buybacks in recent years. Biopharma companies won’t need a Covid-19 bailout, though they could benefit from parts of the bills that are meant to drive the development of Covid-19 treatments and vaccines.

But in his note, Porges argues that the Covid-19 pandemic will make it harder for the biopharma industry to buy back shares. “Looking forward, the ability to conduct large share repurchase programs similar to the 2017-2019 period may be limited due to the medium-term impacts of the coronavirus on financial results, reduced access to credit, and reduced political tolerance for buybacks,” Porges wrote.

He wrote that investors currently expect share repurchases from a swath of biopharma names—expectations that may need to be adjusted.

“The biopharma industry does not have such balance sheet risks, nor will it require a bailout, but forward EPS estimates that rely on large buyback programs are probably at risk in the forthcoming austerity,” he wrote. “We believe that stocks with consensus earnings expectations that include a large share repurchase contribution...are at risk for downward estimate revisions if buyback authorization and activity are dialed back in 2020 and beyond.”

Consensus earnings forecasts for Gilead Sciences (GILD) and Biogen (BIIB), for example, currently assume significant share buybacks, he wrote.