Tesla and Microsoft Earnings Will Move the Market



The most important events for the stock market Wednesday will come after the close—when Microsoft and Tesla will report earnings.

Tesla stock is up 275% year to date, and it’s now the world’s most valuable car company, worth almost $300 billion. Microsoft is up a paltry 32%, but after adding $380 billion in market cap, it’s now worth $1.5 trillion, making it the second most valuable company in the U.S., trailing only Apple.

Expectations are high. Officially, Tesla is expected to post a small second-quarter loss, but that estimate appears stale. Tesla’s second-quarter deliveries crushed forecasts, and analysts have been slow to adjust their numbers. The so-called whisper number could be closer to 50 cents in per share profit. The stakes are high: If Tesla produces a quarterly profit, its stock could be added to the S&P 500.

Microsoft is expected to earn $1.36 a share and, like Tesla, it will have to do better than the official numbers to meet heightened expectations. The company has topped earnings estimates for 16 straight quarters. The last time Microsoft missed estimates the stock dropped 7.2%. There will be less drama at Microsoft, but earnings still matter.

Come to think of it, earnings always matter.

—Al Root

***
U.S. Orders China to Close Houston Consulate
The U.S. State Department ordered China’s foreign ministry to close its Houston consulate Wednesday.

China said the move was an “unprecedented escalation” and threatened retaliation if the decision was not reversed.
A State Department spokesperson said it directed China to close the consulate to protect Americans’ private information and intellectual property.
The decision is the latest in a series of escalations between the U.S. and China. The U.S. on Wednesday also added 11 Chinese companies to its trade blacklist. Washington said the companies are involved in human rights abuses in the Northwestern Xinjiang region.
What’s Next: The U.S. government’s approach toward China could continue through November as President Donald Trump and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo have blamed China for the coronavirus outbreak. Retaliation by China could inject more uncertainty into already-shaken markets.

—Archie Mitchell

***
DOJ Indicts Chinese Men for Hacking Coronavirus Databases
The U.S. Department of Justice says two men who worked for China’s intelligence service “gained unauthorized access to computers around the world and stole terabytes of data,” targeting everything from gaming software development to Covid-19 research.

Li Xiaoyu and Dong Jiazhi are accused of stealing information both for their own profit as well as for China’s spy service, the Ministry of State Security, at least since 2009.
The suspects allegedly stole hundreds of millions of dollars worth of trade secrets, intellectual property, and other “valuable business information” from companies in 11 or more countries, including the U.S., the U.K., Japan, South Korea, Spain, and Sweden, among others.
The indictment comes days after the U.S., U.K., and Canadian governments accused a Russian hacking group known as Cozy Bear of using malware and fake emails to access valuable vaccine research. A Kremlin spokesperson denied the accusations.
What’s Next: Li and Dong are unlikely to face trial over the charges because China doesn’t have an extradition treaty with the U.S. But the indictment serves to raise awareness of the financial and intellectual property threat posed by such hacks—and deter others who might lack the same protections.

—Anita Hamilton

***
Trump Says the Pandemic Will Get Worse Before Getting Better
President Trump held his first coronavirus briefing since April on Tuesday, during which he told reporters at the White House that the Covid-19 pandemic would probably get worse before it gets better.

The president urged the use of masks when social distancing wasn’t possible. “Whether you like the mask or not, they have an impact,” he said. Trump tweeted a photo of himself wearing a mask on Monday, referring to the practice as patriotic.
Two members of the coronavirus task force who frequently appeared in briefings earlier this year were notably missing. Neither Dr. Deborah Birx nor Dr. Anthony Fauci appeared at the briefing. Trump said Dr. Birx was right outside the room. Fauci told CNN earlier in the day he wasn’t invited.
The revival of these briefings comes as 44 states are seeing increases in the number of new cases, according to the New York Times’s tracker.
The U.S. announced Wednesday morning it would pay Pfizer $1.95 billion to produce and deliver 100 million doses of its Covid-19 vaccine developed jointly with BioNTech as part of Operation Warp Speed, according to multiple reports.
What’s Next: Trump’s briefing also comes as he trails in polls to former Vice President Joe Biden. Given the spike in cases paired with polling that shows many Americans don’t approve of how he has handled the pandemic, the president might look to such briefings as a way to win over the American public.

—Connor Smith

***
Biden Rolls Out Child and Elder Care Plan
Former Vice President Joe Biden laid out his latest economic proposal, a plan for child and elder care, on Tuesday. The presumptive Democratic presidential nominee called for $775 billion to be spent over the next 10 years on tax credits for early childhood care, universal prekindergarten for 3- and 4-year-olds, and increased spending on in-home care for the elderly and disabled.

Biden plans to add three million caregiving and education jobs over the next decade. Around 800,000 Americans who are eligible for home or community care through Medicare are on a wait list of up to five years. Increasing federal aid to expand existing programs by hiring more workers could help those people.
The plan calls for up to $8,000 in annual tax credits for child care and a cap on how much of a family’s income is spent on that care. Lower-income households would pay nothing, Biden said, while total costs would be capped at 7% of household income for middle class families.
Biden said he would offset the cost of his plan by rolling back what he called “unproductive tax cuts” for real-estate investors with more than $400,000 in annual income.
The plan comes after Biden unveiled proposals to boost U.S. manufacturing and respond to climate change.
“We can’t just build back to the way things were before ...This is about dignity and respect for working people.” —Joe Biden

What’s Next: Even if Biden is elected and Democrats win a majority in the Senate in November, Republicans would likely still have enough votes to use a filibuster to block Biden’s proposals. To push any plans through, Biden would either have to work with Republicans or convince the Senate to eliminate the filibuster entirely.

—Ben Walsh

***
Congress Won’t Pass the Next Relief Bill This Month
A fourth Covid-19 rescue package won’t pass until early August, House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R., Calif.) and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R., Ky.) said Tuesday. The extra unemployment benefits that more than 30 million workers are receiving would expire before a deal to extend or modify them can be struck.

McConnell reportedly is pushing for another round of direct payments to taxpayers, although it is likely that fewer people will be eligible this time around. Earlier this month, he suggested the annual income cutoff could be as low as $40,000.
Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D., Mass.) laid out her list of must haves on Tuesday that totaled more than $1 trillion—and that doesn’t include direct payments and unemployment benefits.
Republicans have yet to release their proposal, but are aiming for a bill with a total cost of about $1 trillion. The Trump administration continues to push for the inclusion of a payroll tax cut.
The gap between the two sides remains huge. The Democratically-controlled House passed a $3 trillion package in May and Senate Democrats are setting their ask well above Republicans’ $1 trillion range.
What’s Next: Senate Republicans, still trying to navigate fissures in their own caucus and with the White House, have yet to present their proposal. Without that, the one thing that needs to happen for a bill to pass—negotiations—can’t begin in earnest.

—Ben Walsh