Moderna’s Covid Vaccine Looks Like a Bargain

On Tuesday evening, Moderna announced a deal with the U.S. government for 100 million doses of its Covid-19 vaccine.

Moderna’s vaccine, called mRNA-1273, started enrolling patients in its final, definitive clinical trial in July. About 30,000 patients will be given the vaccine and results should be released around October. Moderna stock is up more than 9% in premarket trading on the news.

The U.S. appears to be spreading its vaccine bets. It has similar deals with GlaxoSmithKline and Pfizer, and is also helping Novavax’s efforts to the tune of $1.6 billion.

That’s probably a good idea. No vaccines have been proven effective yet. That also explains why the government has lined up about 1.2 billion vaccine doses, or more than three per American.

How much is a vaccine going to cost? GlaxoSmithKline and the U.S. signed a $2.1 billion deal for 100 million doses. That’s $21 a pop. Pfizer has an agreement in place for up to 500 million vaccine doses at about $19.50 per dose. Moderna’s vaccine comes out to $15.25 at the full contract value.

If Moderna’s vaccine works, it’s a bargain at any price.

—Al Root

***
Kamala Harris Is Biden’s VP Pick
Joe Biden finally has his running mate. The former vice president and presumptive Democratic Party presidential nominee named Sen. Kamala Harris of California as his VP pick.

Harris, who dropped out of the primary in December and endorsed Biden in March, is the first Black woman and first woman of Asian descent nominated for the job by a major U.S. party.
Biden called Harris a “fearless fighter,” adding that he picked her in part because of her record of taking on big banks, lifting up working people, and protecting women from abuse.
President Donald Trump, in his daily briefing last night, painted Harris as “one of the most liberal” senators, calling her a “big tax raiser” and a “slasher of funds for the military.”
What’s Next: The Democratic Party is set to nominate Biden during a virtual convention next week. Speakers include former President Barack Obama, 2016’s Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton, as well as Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont and Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York.

—Connor Smith

***
UK Economy in Sharpest Fall in Europe
The British economy contracted by 20.4% in the three months ended in June, the worst performance among European major economies, and the sharpest fall of the G7 group of the world’s biggest industrial powers.

All sectors of the economy were affected by the downturn, with construction down 35% and the accommodation and restaurant business slumping by nearly 87%, the Office for National Statistics said Wednesday.
The slump in the second quarter officially plunged the UK into recession after output in the first quarter of the year fell 2.2%. That’s despite a GDP spike in June, up 8.7% due to the easing of the most drastic restriction measures taken to fight the coronavirus outbreak.
The ONS noted that in the first half of the year, only the Spanish economy sank faster than the UK’s, with GDP down 22.7%, versus 22.1% for the UK, 18.9% for France, 17.1% for Italy and 11.9% for Germany.
What’s Next: Data released Tuesday also showed that 730,000 jobs were cut from UK employers’ payrolls since March, an early sign of the massive rise in unemployment levels expected by the end of the year. Brace for more stimulus, both fiscal and monetary, in the next few months.

—Pierre Briançon

***
A Bleak Time for Commercial Real Estate
Just because the office is open doesn’t mean the workers will come back. That’s a pandemic lesson for commercial districts like Midtown Manhattan, where nonessential employees have been able to return to work since July 6 but foot traffic at office towers is just 10% of its prepandemic levels.

In New York City, it seems that about as many people are back in the office as are going to be soon. Subway ridership, a good proxy for how many people are commuting, had an initial bounce back but is now flat at about a quarter its prepandemic levels.
Los Angeles office sales hit a 10-year low during the second-quarter and subleasing jumped as leaseholders tried to unload some of the space they no longer need.
It isn’t just office buildings that are suffering. Retail chains and restaurants in business districts are getting hit by the drop in customer traffic, and marquee brands like Kate Spade and Le Pain Quotidien are shuttering stores in formerly desirable locations like Fifth Avenue.
One company looking to seize the downturn is Amazon.com, which is teaming up with mall operator Simon Property Group to use what were once Sears and J.C. Penney stores as fulfillment centers.
There’s some optimism about the future of work in big cities. Facebook signed a lease on 730,000 square feet of office space in Manhattan earlier this month, and JP Morgan Chase, Amazon.com, and 25 other companies have pledged to hire 100,000 minority and low-income New Yorkers by 2030.
What’s Next: In parts of the country where in-person school is planned for the fall, there is some hope that workers will come back to the office in slightly higher numbers. But as companies push back plans for a full return to 2021, that increase may be small.

—Ben Walsh

***
Companies Aren’t Thrilled With Trump’s Payroll Tax Deferral
When President Donald Trump signed an executive order deferring payroll taxes, he cast it as a boon to working Americans. But many employers are unsure if they’ll even stop withholding payroll taxes at all, The Wall Street Journal reported.

The main problem with deferring the tax is that the money still needs to be paid eventually. Companies worry that pausing the withholdings could put them on the hook for vast amounts of back taxes later, particularly if workers leave the company before the taxes are collected.
Employees and employers each pay 6.2% of workers’ wages, up to nearly $140,000 in annual income, in payroll taxes that help finance Social Security. Now Trump wants to defer those taxes though the end of 2020, for up to $104,000 in annual income.
Employers are waiting for formal rules from the Treasury Department and the Internal Revenue Service before changing paycheck withholdings. Walmart, UPS, and Home Depot have all said it’s too early to decide what they’ll do, the Journal noted.
If the amount currently withheld were fully passed on to workers, the median household would pocket an additional $1,220 in wages between now and the end of the year, adding a total of $40 billion more a month to Americans’ paychecks.
What’s Next: The executive order on payroll taxes could pressure Congress to forgive any deferred taxes altogether in their next relief package, rather than force workers to pay them later in the year. Leaders from both parties say they are open to starting talks again.

—Ben Walsh

***
Mass Mail-In Voting Faces Logistical Headaches
Thanks to a raft of state decisions on things like no-fault absentee ballots, 76% of Americans are now covered by rules allowing them to vote by mail, the New York Times calculated. But if problems in elections held earlier this year are an indication, the process may not go smoothly.

For example, Connecticut held its primary election Tuesday, but some voters in the city of Middletown reportedly never received the absentee ballots that were mailed to them by the town clerk—prompting a wave of confusion and angst that could be repeated elsewhere this fall.
The surge in mail-in ballots is also putting immense pressure on the Postal Service, which is already in a financially precarious condition. In a New York state primary election, for instance, many voters were initially not counted because state law required ballots to be postmarked.
The Postal Service subsequently said in a lawsuit filed by a candidate that it regularly doesn’t postmark certain classes of mail to save time and money. A judge eventually ruled that many ballots received with no postmark needed to be counted.
Almost 20% of voters will have a ballot mailed to them automatically, but those who don’t will have to figure out how to get a ballot sent to them, submit it correctly (no tape!), and get it mailed back on time.
President Donald Trump has consistently cast doubts on voting by mail, claiming it will lead to fraud, but experts have said there is no evidence to support his view.
What’s Next: The massive surge in mail-in voting means the 2020 election will start well before its official Nov. 3 election date. Voters in the battleground state of North Carolina, which also has a competitive Senate race that could tip who holds the upper chamber, will start receiving ballots on Sept. 4.