Novavax Stock Jumps on Vaccine Deal With South Korean Firm

Novavax said it has a deal with SK Bioscience to manufacture the antigen component of its Covid-19 vaccine candidate during the pandemic period. The stock jumped more than 9% Thursday morning.

Novavax (ticker: NVAX) said its development and supply agreement with the South Korean firm will help it supply its vaccine, NVX-CoV2373, to global markets, including South Korea. SK is set to start production this month.

“We are proud to partner with SK bioscience to fulfill our commitment to ensure global supply of NVX-CoV2373 in alignment with our partnership with CEPI,” Novavax CEO Stanley C. Erck said in a news release. The acronym refers to the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness, a nongovernmental agency that has supplied millions of dollars in funding to help test and develop Novavax’s experimental vaccine.

The companies said they also signed a letter of intent with South Korea’s government to ”work toward broad and equitable access to NVX-CoV2373 for the global market as well as to make the vaccine available in South Korea.”

“SK bioscience shares our sense of urgency to ensure broad and equitable access for our COVID-19 vaccine candidate around the world,” Erck added.

Novavax stock sank 16.8% on Wednesday, amid apparent progress for Russia’s vaccine candidate and a U.S. government supply deal with Moderna (MRNA), part of the Trump administration’s Operation Warp Speed plan to fast-track promising Covid-19 vaccines.

J.P. Morgan analyst Eric Joseph wrote in a note on Wednesday that he didn’t see the Moderna award as fundamentally negative news for Novavax. “Rather, the recent OWS award is more likely a reflection of process and timing, ensuring appropriate resources are matched with manufacturing needs as the gov’t places bets on a portfolio of vaccine options,” Joseph wrote.

He points to six Operation Warp Speed award vaccine recipients thus far, adding up to $10.2 billion in funding. That included the $1.6 billion Novavax announced in July.

Joseph argued NVX-CoV2373 still has a probable best-in-class immunogenicity profile, despite recently encouraging news from Pfizer (PFE) and BioNTech’s (BNTX) candidate, BNT162b1.

Novavax stock was up 9.3%, at $136.03, in recent trading.

