Buy Lilly, AbbVie and Merck Stocks, J.P. Morgan Says, but Pfizer Is Still Expensive

Pharmaceutical stocks were early winners off the market’s March bottom, but they have lagged behind the peppy tape lately.

J.P. Morgan’s Chris Schott thinks drug stocks still have headroom, and in a Tuesday note he urges clients to pick up the stocks of Eli Lilly (ticker: LLY), AbbVie (ABBV) and Merck (MRK). But despite Monday’s selloff in Pfizer (PFE), after a cancer-drug study failure, Schott isn’t keen on that stock.

The Covid-19 crisis, and the urgent need for drugs to end it, have quieted calls for health-care reform, the analyst says. And the impact of lockdowns on prescription volumes is slowly dissipating. ”We expect this trend to accelerate over the coming months,” Schott writes, “as physician offices reopen and volumes for physician administered products further normalize.”

Overall this year, pharma stocks have done better than the market—losing just 1% compared with the 5% loss of the S&P 500. Schott thinks the outlook is good for the big drug companies. A number of them have new products teed-up and the whole world looks for them to deliver us from quarantine with vaccines against the Covid virus.

Lilly should be a core holding, says Schott. He expects great things for tirzepatide, a diabetes drug for which Phase 3 study results should appear before year-end. Nearer term, the company can begin sales of a cancer drug called Retevmo and the migraine treatment Emgality.

AbbVie seems unreasonably cheap to Schott, with its shares trading at just 9-times the earnings he expects for it this year. Investors have shunned the shares in fear of the 2023 loss of U.S. exclusivity for AbbVie’s top-selling Humira. The J.P. Morgan man thinks AbbVie will manage its way through that loss, thanks to its recent acquisition of Botox-seller Allergan, and successors to Humira, including Skyrizi and Reinvoq. The stock also pays an industry-high dividend yield of around 5.5%.

Merck’s sales have been hurt more than others by Covid-19’s impact on doctor visits, because more than two-thirds of Merck revenue comes from drugs administered in doctors’ clinics. The company has some 20 studies under way on expanded use of its bestselling treatment for cancer, Keytruda. After hitting a low in its sales of vaccines and veterinary products for the quarter ending in June, Schott expects those franchises to revive. With a strong balance sheet, Merck can use acquisitions to further fill its product pipeline.

Pfizer shares fell 7% on Monday, when the company announced that a clinical trial of its drug Ibrance as a long-term treatment for breast cancer hadn’t worked out. That will make it harder for Pfizer to achieve its goal of increasing sales 6% a year through 2025, Schott says. Growth of 5% may be achievable, he concludes, with earnings growth of around 9%. But with its stock trading at 13.5-times next year’s earnings, the analyst thinks Pfizer will need successful new products to fulfill its ambitions. The company will present its research outlook to analysts in September. J.P. Morgan has a Neutral rating on the stock.

