Scaling Up Output of a Covid Vaccine Is Costly, Says Moderna


The biotech firm Moderna said it has gotten $400 million in deposits from countries lining up for its Covid-19 vaccine. That’s a good thing, because Moderna expects to spend as much as $750 million this year as it scales up production.

On a Wednesday morning call to discuss June quarter results, chief executive Stephane Bancel told listeners that Moderna is manufacturing Covid-19 vaccine on the assumption that its just-started Phase 3 trial will succeed and lead to approval.

“As we speak, our teams are making commercial products,” Bancel said. “We are literally making products and stockpiling at risk.”

Moderna stock (ticker: MRNA) was off 4% in midday trading, at $75.40. That still leaves the shares up nearly fourfold for the year, giving the Cambridge, Mass., company a market capitalization of $29 billion.

Given that Moderna is a development-stage company, second-quarter revenues from grants and development partners were just $66 million. The net loss was $117 million, or 31 cents a share. A big stock offering left the company with $3.1 billion in cash at June’s end.

Not surprisingly, listeners had many questions about Covid-19 vaccines. Late Tuesday, rival vaccine developer Novavax (NVAX) reported an impressive initial human trial of a Covid vaccine that uses a different technology from the messenger-RNA approach used by Moderna and by a team of Pfizer (PFE) and BioNTech (BNTX).

“I think our data continue to be as good or better than anything anybody’s reported,” Moderna chief medical officer Tal Zaks said on the call, citing the level of antibodies in volunteers for Moderna’s early trials, as well as the disease resistance shown in vaccinated animals. Early results from the similar Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine help validate Moderna’s approach, he said.

The strong antibody response reported by Novavax is no surprise, said Zaks. That vaccine consists of artificial versions of proteins found on the SARS-CoV-2 virus—an approach that has worked well in other diseases.

More traditional vaccine technologies may struggle, the medical officer warned.

Asked about the durability of a Covid vaccine’s protection, Zaks said that it’s too soon to tell from early trials. But he and his colleagues released some new results from Moderna’s Phase 1 trial of a vaccine it is developing for the CMV virus, which can cause problems for pregnant women and people with compromised immune systems. After 12 months, trial participants had high levels of anti-CMV antibodies.

The CMV vaccine is expected to be Moderna’s next big product, after the Covid preventive. It could enjoy peak annual sales of $2 billion to $5 billion, CEO Bancel told listeners. A Phase 3 study should begin in 2021.

By September, Moderna expects to finish enrolling 30,000 volunteers in the Phase 3 test of its Covid vaccine. With its manufacturing partner Lonza Group (LZAGY) it is aiming to produce at least 500 million doses for 2021, and possibly as many as a billion. During the pandemic, Moderna said, it is making deals to sell the shots at a cost of about $33 in smaller contracts, and at a lower cost for high volumes.

The pricing will rise after the pandemic subsides and Covid vaccines become a preventive ritual, like flu shots. Moderna president Stephen Hoge told Wednesday’s listeners that initial economic studies suggest that the medical savings from a Covid vaccine would support a price of at least $300 per vaccination.