Bristol-Myers Squibb Boosts Outlook Now That Patients Are Coming Back

Bristol-Myers Squibb happily surprised investors with June-quarter results that showed it bouncing back from the Covid-19 crimp in drug sales. The Thursday morning announcement followed the previous night’s good news of a patent victory for a big-selling heart drug it markets with Pfizer.

In a conference call, CEO Giovanni Caforio said the company’s sales force was returning to the field and clinical trials of developing products were recruiting patients again.

Bristol-Myers stock (ticker: BMY) was up 3.2%, at $61.62, in recent trading.

The second quarter’s sales of $10.1 billion were 61% higher than the year-ago quarter, but all of that increase reflected Bristol-Myers’ late-2019 acquisition of Celgene. Sales were flat, adjusting for the merged businesses. Merger costs left a loss of four cents a share, but adjusting for those expenses, Bristol-Myers grew profits 38% to $3.8 billion, or $1.63 a share. Wall Street had expected about $1.48 a share (merger costs aside).

Covid-19-related lockdowns had hurt new patient starts and delayed the launch of recently approved products. But as the world reopened, the company felt sufficiently encouraged to raise its earnings guidance for the 2020 year to a range of $6.10 to $6.25 a share, from a previous range of $6.00 to $6.20.

Wednesday, Bristol-Myers won an important court victory for the cardiac drug Eliquis, which it sells in partnership with Pfizer (PFE). A patent challenge by generic drugmakers was rebuffed. Bristol-Myers says that generic entry won’t happen until 2026 at the earliest.

The win mattered. Eliquis sales rose 6% in the June quarter, to $2.2 billion, making it Bristol’s second-biggest product for the period. The top seller was the cancer drug Revlimid, whose sales rose 6% to $2.9 billion.

Bristol-Myers’ important immuno-oncology drug Opdivo saw its sales drop 9%, to $1.7 billion, as patients were kept from infusion centers due to the pandemic. But sales launches of the product for recently approved indications in lung and in kidney cancer leads the company to expect that sales growth will resume in 2021, said Chief Financial Officer David Elkins on the earnings call.

CEO Caforio reminded listeners of the company’s high hopes for the products in its pipeline—which Bristol-Myers believes could add up to $20 billion in annual sales in the decade’s second half.

He also railed against President Donald Trump’s recent executive order that allows the importing of drugs at the lower prices that drugmakers must charge in countries with single-payer government health systems.

“The policy of importing price controls from foreign countries,” Caforio said, “would have a significant impact on our industry in the U.S., starting with our ability to continue to invest in R&D and lead innovative research to treat disease at a time when we are leading the fight against Covid.”