Eli Lilly’s Cancer Drug Succeeded Where Pfizer Failed. What It Means for Their Stocks.

Eli Lilly said Tuesday that its cancer drug Verzenio succeeded in preventing breast-cancer recurrence in a study of the kind that Pfizer’s big seller Ibrance failed in May. The Lilly news will enhance doctors’ views of its drug as Verzenio tries to catch up with Pfizer’s category leader.

Lilly stock (ticker: LLY) leapt 12%, to $158.70, on the clinical trial success for Verzenio—a member of a fast-selling class of cancer drugs known as a CDK 4 & 6 inhibitors. That would be its largest percentage gain since October 2008.

The news is a big win for Lilly over Pfizer (PFE), whose stock slipped 1.5% upon opening, to $32. Pfizer’s Ibrance brings in more than $5.5 billion in annual revenue.

In Lilly’s announcement, its oncology head Anne White called the Verzenio study “a major milestone with the potential to change the paradigm of how early breast cancer is treated.”

Verzenio was first approved in 2017 for treating certain advanced breast cancers. Like Pfizer’s Ibrance and the Kisqali drug from Novartis (NVS), the Lilly drug blocks the development of cancer cells when used with chemotherapy drugs.

All three drug companies had been running large studies to see if the long-term use of their products might help prevent a recurrence in patients who treated their breast cancers early—a kind of treatment known as adjuvant therapy.

Editor's Choice
But Pfizer suffered a disappointment in May, when an interim analysis of its PALLAS trial showed that adjuvant use of Ibrance was doing patients no good. Lilly’s Verzenio works somewhat differently than Pfizer’s drug and Lilly’s 5,600-patient monarchE study narrowed its adjuvant test to patients at high-risk of a recurrence.

The Lilly drug is making a difference, as the company announced Tuesday after an interim look at the data. The adjuvant success is the first for the CDK 4 & 6 class. An adjuvant study by Novartis for Kisqali is still ongoing.

If approved as a new indication by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, adjuvant use of Verzenio will add incremental sales, of course. But it should also burnish the Lilly drug’s reputation as a differentiated product in its class. Guggenheim analyst Seamus Fernandez wrote in a recent report that some oncologists viewed the Lilly drug as more powerful than Pfizer’s bigger selling Ibrance.