The Dow Rose 211 Points Because Coronavirus Vaccines and Trade Talks Look Possible

Stocks opened high on Thursday and held on to gains until the end of the session. Investors were encouraged by progress in a hopeful Covid-19 vaccine, hopes for more fiscal stimulus, and the potential easing of the U.S.-China tension.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average added 211.25 points, or 0.89%, to finish at 23,875.89. The S&P 500 rose 32.77 points, or 1.15%, to close at 2881.19, while the Nasdaq Composite gained 125.27 points, or 1.41%, to finish at 8979.66.

The Nasdaq Composite has rallied 31% in the last six weeks. With the latest gains, the tech-heavy index has now officially wiped out all its losses in 2020 to close with an 0.08% year-to-date gain.

The Food and Drug Administration has approved biotech firm Moderna’s (ticker: MRNA) experimental Covid-19 vaccine, mRNA-1273, for phase-2 trial, which will begin with 600 participants shortly, the company said in a Thursday statement. A phase-3 trial is also planned for as early as this summer. Depending on a number of factors, the vaccine could be available to the public as soon as 2021, the company said. Moderna stock soared 8.7% on Thursday.

Moderna’s mRNA-1273 is among at least a dozen vaccines under development. Earlier this week, Pfizer (PFE) and partner BioNTech (BNTX) have also begun testing an experimental vaccine in the U.S. and said results could be out as early as next month.

House Democrats are finalizing their next legislative response to the coronavirus pandemic—a massive “Franklin Rooseveltian-type” recovery package—just as Senate Republicans were cautioning against the quickly piled-up spending and rising budget deficit.

The Democrats’ bill is expected to include more than $750 billion in aid to state and local governments, as well as another round of direct support to Americans. Democratic leaders said they also want to extend enhanced unemployment benefits, increase access to coronavirus testing, fund vote-by-mail programs and the Postal Service, provide safety protections for front-line workers, and expand Americans’ access to broadband.

President Donald Trump, on the other hand, has been pushing for more tax cuts and an infrastructure package. Senate Republicans, facing renewed concerns over a ballooning deficit, have instead prioritized creating a liability shield for companies operating during the outbreak.

Editor's Choice
U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer will reportedly meet with China’s Vice Premier Liu He as soon as next week to talk about progress in implementing the phase-one trade deal, which was reached in early January. The news came after several days of rising tensions between the U.S. and China, as President Trump has floated the possibility of imposing additional tariffs on China to punish Beijing over its handling of the coronavirus outbreak.

While senior Trump administration officials have signaled earlier this week that they won’t seek to punish China economically if Beijing abides by trade commitments made earlier this year, the war of words between the two countries is likely to persist. Investors should brace for more market volatility driven by such rhetoric, just like in 2019. But the stakes would be higher this time, as both countries’ economies are now suffering from the Covid-19 disruptions.

An additional 3.2 million Americans filed for unemployment insurance last week, bringing the total number of job losses since mid-March to more than 33.5 million. Last week’s figure was the fewest since the Covid-19 pandemic forced businesses to shut doors and cut jobs, but remains historically high.

The silver lining is that the trend is falling. Claims continue to decrease by about 15% a week and are now at less than half the peak set at the end of March. Economists expect the trend to continue in the coming weeks, especially as some states have already reopened the economy to allow companies back to business again. The question is how much consumers are willing to spend once restrictions are lifted, which will directly influence how quickly employers rehire workers to support the recovering demand.

