AstraZeneca Reportedly Talked to Gilead About a Merger. Why There’s Reason to Be Skeptical.

AstraZeneca PLC, the U.K.’s largest drugmaker, approached Gilead Sciences last month to gauge its interest in a merger, Bloomberg reported Sunday, citing people familiar with the matter. If completed, the merger would be the largest health-care deal ever, dwarfing the value of Bristol-Myers Squibb’s purchase of Celgene for $88 billion last year. It would create a powerhouse in coronavirus treatments since Gilead makes the drug remdesivir, while AstraZeneca is working on a vaccine.

AstraZeneca (ticker: AZN), which has a market value of $141 billion, told Barron’s, “we don’t comment on rumours and speculation.”

A source familiar with the company’s thinking called the report “rubbish,” adding, “They’ve turned this company around over six to seven years. They’re in a position in which they have a very rich full pipeline, which they need to focus on, and they’ve also just taken on this [coronavirus] vaccine. The idea that they have any capacity to do the biggest M&A deal in pharma history is far off the mark.”

Gilead (GILD), which has a market cap of $96 billion, declined to comment.

One Wall Street analyst, meanwhile, expressed skepticism about a potential deal.

“We do not view this deal as likely,” Jefferies analyst Michael Yee wrote Sunday, adding “we think Gilead believes its HIV biz is very underappreciated by the Street and would prefer to build value over time and do its own tuck-in deals.” Gilead’s core business encompassing HIV drugs that generate significant cash flow, include an experimental treatment called GS-6207.

Yee noted that Gilead CEO Daniel O’Day, who arrived just 15 months ago, sees the company’s price-to-earnings ratio as too low. O’Day has his own strategy around deals and partnerships, would like to maximize the value of remdesivir, “and derive full value on HIV,” Yee wrote. Meanwhile, AstraZeneca’s stock is at an all-time high.

The companies do have common ties, since both CEOs worked at Roche (ROG.Switzerland) together. AstraZeneca’s CEO, Pascal Soriot, was COO of Roche Pharmaceuticals until he joined AstraZeneca in 2012. Meanwhile, Gilead’s CEO, O’Day, was Roche’s CEO until he joined Gilead last year.

Samantha Pandolfi, co-manager of the Eaton Vance Worldwide Health Sciences Fund (ETHSX), said that she was “very surprised” to read the report that the two have discussed the possibility of a merger. “I don’t think there are conditions that trigger M&A of this magnitude,” Pandolfi says.

For one thing, AstraZeneca isn’t a company with an expiring pipeline that it must replace: Instead, it has a strong growing oncology franchise with long patents extending into the late 2020s and beyond.

Gilead also isn’t “an obvious target,” she says, with CEO O’Day now trying to revive the company’s pipeline. There’s little therapeutic overlap so few synergies ensue, she says. Astra derives its growth from oncology, Gilead from virology.

What about the possibility that Astra wants to protect itself from takeover by merging with another large company? At $140 billion, Astra today is already arguably too large for rivals Pfizer (PFE) and Novartis (NVS) to buy. And Roche, with a market cap of $296 billion, “doesn’t typically do deals of that scale,” Pandolfi says. AstraZeneca was the target of a $118 billion takeover offer from Pfizer in 2014, which Pfizer abandoned.

Gilead makes the promising anti-viral drug remdesivir treatment for Covid-19, which SVB Leerink estimates could be worth $2 billion this year and $6.7 billion in 2021. Initially, Gilead has donated remdesivir to governments, but it’s expected to announce pricing in the coming weeks. SVB Leerink believes Gilead will sell remdesivir for both commercial use and government stockpiling.

AstraZeneca has an array of treatments, including a strong portfolio of oncology drugs. SVB Leerink believes that oncology revenues will exceed 50% of total revenues by 2022. Meanwhile, the company’s Covid-19 vaccine that it’s developing in partnership with the University of Oxford has a $1.2 billion funding commitment from the U.S. government, although the earliest doses appear to be committed to the U.K. The company has signed a number of agreements to distribute the vaccine.

Recently, the firm’s drug for early-stage non-small cell lung cancer also achieved positive results.

AstraZeneca ADRs are up 8% to $53.85 this year, while Gilead stock is up 18% to $76.75.

A quote in this article has been updated to more accurately reflect comments from a person familiar with AstraZeneca’s thinking.