Another mRNA Company Announced a Covid-19 Vaccine Program

On Friday, Sanofi announced a new effort to develop a vaccine to prevent the novel coronavirus, Covid-19. A collaboration with the biotech firm Translate Bio, the program will be at least the fourth known effort to build a Covid-19 vaccine using messenger RNA, a previously little-known vaccine development method.

The collaboration is Sanofi’s (ticker: SNY) second Covid-19 vaccine program. Translate (TBIO) is the last of the four biotech firms best known for working on mRNA-based therapies to announce it is working toward a Covid-19 vaccine.

“I think the beauty, the strength of the messenger RNA platform is just this, is the ability to be able to respond much more quickly than some of the conventional vaccine approaches,” said Ron Renaud, Translate’s CEO, in an interview Friday afternoon. “I’m happy to see everybody throwing just about everything they can against this.”

Renaud said that Translate and Sanofi hope to begin testing an experimental mRNA vaccine by the end of this year, with the goal of getting the vaccine approved in the second half of next year.

Messenger RNA vaccines have drawn substantial interest in recent months as a potential quick route to a Covid-19 vaccine. Moderna ‘s (MRNA) mRNA vaccine for the virus is the first to begin human trials in the U.S. Messenger RNA specialists CureVac and BioNTech (BNTX) are also working on Covid-19 vaccines, BioNTech in collaboration with Pfizer (PFE).

A Barron’s feature last summer highlighted the promise of mRNA therapies, focusing on Translate and Moderna. The companies seek to make pharmaceuticals using mRNA, the molecules that bring instructions from a cell’s DNA to its protein factories. Last year, while some investors praised Moderna’s vaccine programs, much of the investor focus was on the mRNA rare disease programs, in which mRNA is introduced into a patient’s body to help them produce proteins their body can’t, generally due to a genetic disorder.

Now, it’s the prophylactic vaccines that are making headlines. Messenger RNA-based prophylactic vaccines use a bit of mRNA to activate the immune system against a given virus. So far, no messenger RNA-based rare disease therapies or prophylactic vaccines have been approved by the Food and Drug Administration. But today, investors and public health officials are looking to the mRNA companies as the best hope for ending the pandemic. Shares of Moderna are up 57.2% so far this year, shares of Translate are up 32.2%, and shares of BioNTech are up 62.4%.

“We don’t see this as being competitive, we see this as being additive,” Translate’s Renaud said. “Hopefully we can all address as many patients as possible.”

Translate had been largely focused on rare applications of mRNA, and less focused on vaccines. Renaud said that could be an advantage in this instance, because the company’s manufacturing capabilities were geared toward the higher volumes of mRNA needed to treat rare diseases. Messenger RNA vaccines would require far less material.

The company is capable of making 100 grams of mRNA material at a time using its current manufacturing capabilities—an amount of material that, based on how large a dose is eventually required for the vaccines, could be enough for tens of millions of doses, according to Renaud. The company is currently building out manufacturing space with a contract manufacturer that would make it capable of making 500 grams of mRNA a month.

Translate’s work with Sanofi is the continuation of a pre-existing deal to collaborate on infectious disease vaccines. Translate has so far prepared so-called mRNA constructs that could serve as a basis for a Covid-19 vaccine. Renaud said the next step was to begin animal testing. He said that Translate’s work wasn’t only based on the first sequencing of the virus provided by Chinese scientists in January, but also on later data that has become available more as the virus has traveled and mutated.

On a conference call on Thursday, David Loew, the executive vice president of Sanofi Pasteur, Sanofi’s vaccine-making subsidiary, said the company would bring its vaccine development expertise to the program. “Sanofi has a global research and development organization and has executed trials in over 60 countries,” Loew said. “Leveraging this expertise will create synergies and accelerate the program. Furthermore, we leverage our existing partnership with health agencies.”

Shares of Translate rose 5.5% on Friday, while shares of Sanofi fell 1.2%. The S&P 500 dropped 3.4%.

