Pfizer and BioNTech Begin Giving U.S. Test Participants a Potential Covid-19 Vaccine

The drug giant Pfizer said Tuesday it had begun giving participants an experimental Covid-19 vaccine it is developing with the German biotech firm BioNTech.

The companies are working together on a messenger RNA-based vaccine, a novel approach in which BioNTech (ticker: BNTX) specializes. Pfizer (PFE) is one of the world’s largest vaccine-makers.

“The short, less than four-month time frame in which we’ve been able to move from pre-clinical studies to human testing is extraordinary and further demonstrates our commitment to dedicating our best-in-class resources, from the lab to manufacturing and beyond, in the battle against Covid-19,” Pfizer CEO Albert Bourla said in a statement.

The companies said last week they had injected a dozen patients with the vaccine in the first cohort of the trial in Germany.

The study will test four separate mRNA vaccine candidates in 360 healthy adults in the U.S. at various medical centers. The aim of the Phase 1 dose escalation trial is to help select the most promising of the four candidates.

Shares of Pfizer were up 2.5% Tuesday morning, while shares of BioNTech were up 7.3%. The S&P 500 was up 1.5%.

The collaboration between Pfizer and BioNTech is one of a handful of efforts to develop an mRNA-based vaccine for Covid-19. The biotech firm Moderna (MRNA) has also begun injecting patients with an experimental Covid-19 vaccine in a Phase 1 trial, excitement over which has sent Moderna shares up 158% this year. Sanofi (SNY) is working with Translate Bio (TBIO) on an mRNA vaccine program they expect to begin testing in humans by the end of 2020.

Messenger RNA-based vaccine approaches have been quick to get into human testing for Covid-19 because it is relatively easy to target a pre-existing mRNA vaccine platform to a particular virus. But the technology is novel, and the Food and Drug Administration has yet to approve mRNA-based vaccines for any diseases.

In their Tuesday statement, Pfizer and BioNTech said the companies are already planning how to accelerate the manufacturing of the vaccine, using Pfizer facilities in Massachusetts, Michigan, Missouri and Belgium. The companies said they could produce millions of doses in 2020 and hundreds of millions in 2021.

