Stocks’ Rally Loses Steam With S&P and Nasdaq Both Closing Down


Stocks were unable to hold on to their earlier gains in Monday’s volatile session as California reversed its reopening plans and coronavirus cases continue to surge in the country. California Gov. Gavin Newsom ordered all restaurants, bar, movie theaters, zoos and museums to close their indoor operations.

The announcement caused stocks to reverse course, after gaining during much of the trading day on hopes of better-than-expected financial results for the second quarter.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average ended the day up 10.5 points or, roughly flat, after erasing a 500-point surge earlier in the trading day. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq Composite fell 0.9% and 2.2%, respectively, completely erasing earlier gains.

The Nikkei 225 gained 2.2%, and the Shanghai Composite continued to rally, advancing 1.8%. The Stoxx Europe 600 added 0.9%.

Earnings season for the second quarter gets under way this week. In the U.S., major banks including Citigroup (ticker: C), JPMorgan Chase (JPM) and Wells Fargo (WFC) are due to report their results. The consensus among analysts is that companies in the S&P 500 will record an aggregate year-over-year drop in revenue of 12%, and a 44% plunge in earnings.

“Like most earnings, this time around the real focus will be on the outlook for Q3 and Q4, not on what has already happened. If banks can provide enough of a positive view then their stock prices may do better, even after a substantial rally from the March lows,” said Chris Beauchamp, chief market analyst at IG.

Florida on Sunday reported the highest number of cases for any state during the pandemic, accounting for about a quarter of the U.S. total. U.S. President Donald Trump and U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson each wore masks in public for the first time, with speculation England may start requiring mask wearing in shops.

“The evidence is wearing masks adds a layer of protection in densely populated settings where social distancing isn’t possible. That can be extrapolated to say more people being comfortable with wearing a face mask means fewer virus cases and a quicker economic recovery,” said Jasper Lawler, head of research at London Capital Group.

PepsiCo (PEP) shares were up 0.3% as the beverage and snack maker kicked off earnings season and released better-than-expected results from the second quarter. Pepsi didn’t release guidance, citing uncertainties tied to the coronavirus pandemic, but it said it planned to return $7.5 billion to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases.

Analog Devices (ADI) shares slipped 5.8% after management announced plans to buy rival chip maker Maxim Integrated Products (MXIM) in a $21 billion deal. Maxim shares surged 8.1%.

Pfizer (PFE) and BioNTech SE (BNTX) shares climbed 4.1% and 10.6%, respectively, after two of their vaccine candidates were granted “fast track” status by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.

Tesla (TSLA) shares finally gave up their impressive rally falling 3.1% in late afternoon trades, after the company slashed the price of its Model Y SUV by $3,000.
