Moderna Stock Surges as Wall Street Gives Thumbs Up to Vaccine Data

Analysts are finally getting a look at the results from Moderna’s Phase 1 trial of its Covid-19 vaccine, and they say the data looks pretty good.

The trial data, published Tuesday evening in the New England Journal of Medicine, comes two months after Moderna (ticker: MRNA) issued a press release claiming that results from the study had been positive, while offering little evidence.

“We see this as strong initial data for mRNA-1273 and expect MRNA higher on these results which confirm the initial PhI press release,” wrote Morgan Stanely analyst Matthew Harrison in a note out late Tuesday night.

The New England Journal paper reported that the vaccine induced immune responses to the virus that causes Covid-19 in all trial participants. Participants who received 100 microgram doses of the vaccine, which Moderna has selected to use in the Phase 3 trial, produced neutralizing antibodies after a booster dose at a level four times higher than the study found in the blood of three patients who had recovered from Covid-19 infections.

Shares of Moderna were up 12.3%, at $84.28, in recent trading. Moderna held an investor call Wednesday morning on the New England Journal paper, and on its plans for the Phase 3 trial of the vaccine set to begin July 27.

Analysts said that the data from the Phase 1 trial was positive, but warned that the efficacy and safety of the vaccine was far from proven. A Phase 2 study of the vaccine is ongoing.

“While a meaningful step forward, we stress this is still far from a done deal,” wrote J.P. Morgan analyst Cory Kasimov in his own Tuesday night note. Kasimov noted that much remains unknown about how useful the vaccine will prove to be in protecting against Covid-19 infection. He noted that questions remain about how important neutralizing antibody levels are and how important T-cell responses are, among other things.

SVB Leerink analyst Geoffrey Porges, in a Wednesday morning note, noted the high levels of fevers, chills, and other reactions reported by patients in the trial.

“There is no doubt that this vaccine, like its competitors, will face challenges clinically and commercially if the same rates of local and systemic reactions persist, or increase, in their pivotal trial cohort,” Porges wrote. “If they are offset by very strong disease prevention benefits, then these events are likely to be acceptable, but if not, or if they become more severe, they could significantly limit the vaccine’s adoption in healthy and low risk individuals.”

It is tempting to try to make comparisons between the reported effectiveness seen in the clinical trials of the Moderna vaccine and the experimental Pfizer (PFE) vaccine, both of which use the same messenger RNA-based approach. Detailed Phase 1 data is now available on both of the vaccines. But Porges noted that because the trials used different tests, it’s very hard to say if one or the other is better.

“Due to differences in assays, it is very difficult to compare across trials; using the publications’ own convalescent sera panels as controls, we aren’t inclined to conclude that either the Moderna or Pfizer/BioNTech vaccines construct is better, or more immunogenic, than the other at this stage,” he wrote.

