Novavax Stock Soars. Analysts Say Its Covid-19 Vaccine Might Be the Best.


Novavax soared the day after it released data on the first human trial of its Covid-19 vaccine, the stock is soaring and analysts say that the data looks extraordinarily promising.

Shares of Novavax (ticker: NVAX) briefly crashed on Tuesday night amid confusion over the safety data from the trial. But in the clear light of day Wednesday, shares of Novavax surged 10% to $172.17 a share.

The stock is up more than 4,300% so far this year.

In a note Wednesday morning, Cantor Fitzgerald analyst Charles Duncan said Novavax’s Covid-19 vaccine appeared to be “more-than-viable, dare we say ‘class-leading.’” J.P. Morgan analyst Eric Joseph said it’s “not too far a stretch to conclude” that the neutralizing antibody activity of the vaccine “looks best-in-class.”

Joseph upgraded Novavax to Overweight from Neutral, and set a price target of $275.

Both analysts warned, however, that it remains challenging to compare neutralizing antibody activity between the various data sets coming out of early Covid-19 vaccine trials.

In its statement Tuesday, Novavax announced results from the Phase 1 portion of the Phase 1/2 trial of its Covid-19 vaccine—a randomized, controlled trial of 131 healthy adults. The study found that all subjects who received the vaccine developed neutralizing antibody responses after the second dose. Reactions were generally mild. There were no serious adverse events.

In a note Tuesday night, Evercore ISI analyst Josh Schimmer wrote that in a comparison of absolute neutralizing antibody levels between the Covid-19 vaccine trials that have read out so far, “NVAX is a clear winner.” But it isn’t clear that that comparison is appropriate, or even that high levels of neutralizing antibodies would necessarily correlate to higher degrees of protection from the virus.

Novavax’s vaccine is based on a far more proven technology than the messenger RNA-based vaccines under development from Moderna (MRNA) and Pfizer (PFE). No messenger RNA vaccines have ever been approved by regulators; the Food and Drug Administration has approved adjuvanted subunit vaccines like the one Novavax is developing.

“Given the ‘tried and true’ nature of adjuvanted subunit vaccines, we suspect this program will emerge as a preferred option for many, with intense efforts to accelerate/ scale-up,” Schimmer wrote.

Novavax has received $1.6 billion from the U.S. government to develop its vaccine. It plans to run a Phase 3 trial of the vaccine later this year.