Moderna Will Start Testing Its Covid-19 Vaccine on 30,000 People in July

The biotech startup Moderna says it will begin the pivotal trial of its candidate vaccine against Covid-19 in July. In a Thursday morning announcement, it said it hopes to enroll 30,000 volunteers—randomizing them to receive either a placebo or the vaccine, and a second booster shot one month later. Researchers will then watch to see how many in each group contract Covid as they go about their lives over the subsequent year.

Shares of Moderna (ticker: MRNA) have soared and stooped on gusts of hope for a vaccine to end the Covid pandemic. The stock was up threefold for the year at Wednesday’s closing price of $60.

Dozens of vaccines against Covid’s SARS-CoV-2 virus are on fast track development around the world, with such urgency that a number of their biopharma developers are preparing their manufacturing facilities before they even know whether their vaccine candidates work.

In its announcement, Moderna said that its own plant and those of Swiss manufacturing partner Lonza Group (LZAGY) are on track to deliver from 500 million to a billion doses a year, starting in 2021, if the July phase-three trial succeeds.

See our cover story: Inside the Science and Companies Racing to Develop a Covid-19 Vaccine

Germany’s BioNTech (BNTX) said Wednesday that it had received a 100 million euro loan from a European Union strategic investment fund, to allow BioNTech to take the risk of building manufacturing for its vaccine candidate, which it is testing in clinical trials in collaboration with drug giant Pfizer (PFE). Another vaccine contender, Johnson & Johnson (JNJ), also said Wednesday that it was accelerating its product development to start human trials of its vaccine in July.

Both Moderna and BioNTech are trying a novel approach of inserting bits of genetic instructions into a person’s cells, which then produce harmless proteins that are characteristic of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. The antibodies that arise to these proteins could subsequently protect people from infection by the real virus.

The primary success measure in Moderna’s study will be the relative number of people in the vaccinated and placebo groups that develop Covid symptoms. Secondary measures will be the number who get infected in the first place, and the number whose symptoms become bad enough to need hospitalization.

Moderna’s phase-three trial will use the higher of two doses that are still being tested for safety in a smaller phase-two study. The company says that it took less than two weeks to enroll 300 volunteers in the phase-two study. That’s half the planned number. Although Moderna announced encouraging news on its phase-one study in May, its vaccine is on such a speed track that no peer-reviewed data has appeared on any of its clinical trials.