GlaxoSmithKline Stock Falls as Covid-19 Hits Drug and Vaccine Sales

GlaxoSmithKline stock fell 2.6% on Wednesday, as the Covid-19 crisis hit drug and vaccine sales in the second quarter.

The British pharmaceutical giant said near-global lockdown measures had limited people’s visits to health-care professionals, subsequently reducing drug prescriptions and vaccinations.

Revenue dropped 2% to £7.6 billion as Covid-19 disruption hit sales, particularly in GSK’s vaccines business, and drug stockpiling trends eased in the second quarter—missing the FactSet consensus of £7.7 billion. Revenue from its vaccines unit fell 29% to £1.13 billion, while pharmaceuticals slipped 5% to £4.1 billion, reflecting lower demand for antibiotics during the Covid-19 pandemic.

The acquisition of Pfizer’s consumer health-care business last year helped mitigate the fall in other areas, as consumer health-care sales jumped 25% to £2.4 billion. Adjusted earnings per share (EPS) fell 37% to 19.2p.

However, the company reported a net profit of £2.3 billion in the three months to Jun. 30, up from £964 million in the previous year, led by profits from the sale of its Horlicks drinks business to Unilever.

The FTSE 100-listed company maintained its guidance for adjusted EPS to fall between 1% and 4% over the full year. But it warned any delay to the recovery of vaccination rates, particularly in the U.S., would worsen the outlook. GSK said it anticipated vaccination rates would recover in the third quarter but a three-month delay, for example, would impact adjusted EPS by up to 5 percentage points.

GSK announced a deal with the U.K. government over its experimental coronavirus vaccine being developed with French peer Sanofi, earlier on Wednesday. The agreement will provide the U.K. with 60 million doses of its vaccine, if successful. The potential vaccine is one of many being developed around the world but it isn’t one of the early leaders in the race. It is likely to be available by the first half of 2021 at the earliest. GSK isn’t developing a candidate of its own but its vaccine technology is being used in the Sanofi effort and in conjunction with China-based Clover Biopharmaceuticals over another candidate.

Looking ahead. GSK’s second-quarter performance highlights the impact the pandemic is having on the industry. After a strong first quarter, characterized by stockpiling ahead of the lockdown, stay-at-home orders have hit sales in recent months. However, if vaccination rates pick up, as they should eventually, then the rest of the year may help pick up some of those lost sales.

Investors have become preoccupied with the race for a coronavirus vaccine, which has helped pharmaceutical stocks in recent months. Hargreaves Lansdown equity analyst Nicholas Hyett said: “Given the increased focus on vaccine preparedness that’s likely to come out of this crisis, we suspect GSK’s impressive vaccines operations will attract increased investor attention in the years ahead.”