Here’s How Many People Tried Russia’s Coronavirus Vaccine

News that Russia has effectively approved the world’s first Covid-19 vaccine has lifted stocks, but the coronavirus crisis is far from over. Not many people are known to have tried any of the vaccine candidates being developed.

Data from large trials of at least some of the vaccines should arrive in the fourth quarter of 2020.

Still, the fact that Russia has registered a vaccine is good news. Investors are happy: Europe’s FTSE 100 Index rose 1.7% in overseas trading. Asia’s Hang Seng Index jumped 2.1%, and in the U.S., the Dow Jones Industrial Average and S&P 500 were up most of the day before a late selloff pushed the indexes down 0.4% and 0.8%, respectively.

The Russian vaccine, however, was only tested on about 76 people. That’s the bad news embedded in Tuesday’s announcement.Russia, for its part, thinks it has enough data, pointing out the vaccine passed safety tests and produced strong immunity. “The vaccine does not contain the components of the Covid-19 virus,” explains a news release from the Russian health ministry. “A twofold injection scheme allows the formation of long-term immunity. The experience of using vector vaccines—with a twofold scheme of administration—shows that immunity lasts up to 2 years.”

Long-term immunity is more good news, but 76 people—plus animals including primates—isn’t a lot. That is clear from how other researchers, companies, and countries are organizing vaccine trials.

U.S. drugs typically go through three stages of clinical testing. Phase 1 is a safety study. Phase 2 is commonly referred to as a dosing study. And Phase 3 studies are about effectiveness. Phase 1 and 2 trials are of similar size to the tests Russia has conducted, but Phase 3 studies involve thousands of participants.
The Moderna (MRNA) Phase 1 vaccine trial, for instance, involved about 45 people. About 600 people enrolled in its Phase 2 study, while its Phase 3 trial is meant to include 30,000 people. Moderna didn’t respond to a request for comment about enrollment. It isn’t likely they would release those numbers without a more formal disclosure.

Phase 3 enrollment began in late July at 89 sites. If each site was able to enroll 20 patients a day, Moderna would finish enrollments in 17 days, meaning sign-ups could soon be completed. That is simple math, but of course, Barron’s doesn’t know how fast people join vaccine trials.
The drug giant Pfizer (PFE) enrolled 60 patients in a combination Phase 1 and 2 trial. Its Phase 3 trial will involve 30,000 people, but it isn’t clear if enrollment has begun.

Novavax (NVAX), another company with a vaccine candidate, enrolled about 130 patients in its Phase 1 trial. Novavax was awarded $1.6 billion from the government as part of “operation warp speed” for vaccine development, including paying for its Phase 3 trial.

And the vaccine associated with Oxford University in England enrolled 1,077 patients in a Phase 1 and 2 study between April 23 and May. Phase 3 trials are under way around the world. Oxford is also planning to enroll 30,000 participants in its final phase of testing.

Roughly 900 to 1,000 people have been involved in the Phase 1 and 2 trials listed. Those are patients for whom the medical community has data. If Oxford and Moderna have fully enrolled their Phase 3 trials, then roughly 61,000 people would have received a vaccine. Another 60,000 people, perhaps, will enroll in the Novavax and Pfizer trials.

About 120,000 people, therefore, will determine the fate of four non-Russian vaccines. It remains to be seen how the world will respond to the Russian option.

Investors appear to believe people will be willing to try it. Vaccine stocks are taking a hit. Moderna stock fell 4.2% Tuesday. Novavax shares lost 16.3%. Stock in Pfizer slipped 1.6%.