5 Biopharma Stocks That Are Affordable And Growing

The biopharmaceutical sector has slightly outperformed the broader market this past year, with the S&P 500 Pharmaceutical, Biotech & Life Sciences index up 4.6% while the broader S&P 500 is down 0.6%.

But finding value among mature biopharma companies in the S&P 500 is increasingly tricky. Biotech stalwarts that are receiving enormous media attention for their vaccines and therapeutics to fight Covid-19 have seen their valuations skyrocket. Shares of Gilead Sciences (ticker: GILD), which developed the Covid-19 antiviral remdesivir, are up 17.7% this year, while shares of Regeneron Pharmaceuticals (REGN), which is developing a Covid-19 antibody cocktail, are up 68.5%.

To find the most affordable biopharma growth stocks in the S&P 500, Barron’s looked at the 10 biopharma stocks in the index for which analysts have the highest long-term earnings-per-share growth rate estimate, according to FactSet. Then we picked the five among those that trade at the lowest multiple of earnings expected over the next 12 months.

That left us with five of the biggest names in biopharma: stocks with promising earnings potential, but in some cases, notable overhangs that have left them a bit cheaper than their peers.

The stock with the highest estimated long-term earnings-per-share growth rate that passed the screen was Alexion Pharmaceuticals (ticker: ALXN), at 10.9%, according to FactSet. The stock trades at 9.7 times earnings expected over the next 12 months, far below its 5-year average of 18.2 times earnings. The stock is up 1.2% so far this year. In a note on July 14, SVB Leerink analyst Geoffrey Porges argued that the company needs to revamp its capital allocation strategy, and that its approach to acquisitions isn’t working. He said a more balanced capital allocation strategy could lead to a “long-awaited repricing of the stock.”

Also on the list is Bristol Myers Squibb (BMY). Analysts estimate a long-term earnings-per-share growth rate of 9.3% for the stock, according to FactSet. It trades at 8.6 times earnings expected over the next 12 months, well short of its 5-year average of 17.3 times earnings. Barron’s roundtable member Scott Black, founder and president of Delphi Management, listed the stock as a health-care pick for the second half of 2020 in Barron’s Midyear Roundtable published July 10.

5 Biopharma Stocks That Are Affordable And Growing
These five biopharma stocks have strong growth ahead of them, but trade at lower valuations than their peers.

Amgen (AMGN) made the cut as well, with a long-term earnings-per-share growth rate of 8.3%, according to FactSet. The stock trades at 15.6 times earnings. Also on the list were Merck (MRK), with an estimated long-term earnings-per-share growth rate of 7.6%, and Pfizer (PFE), with a long-term estimated earnings-per-share growth rate of 5.8%. Merck trades at 14 times earnings expected over the next 12 months, while Pfizer trades at 13.6 times earnings.

Merck, Pfizer, and Amgen are all developing pharmaceuticals to help treat or cure Covid-19. Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine program is among the farthest along in the world, with executives saying they could seek emergency use authorization for the vaccine by October. Merck has announced it is working on two vaccines and an antiviral, and Amgen is working on a Covid-19 antibody therapy.

Success for any of those programs could provide a significant boost for the stocks.