A Healthy Dose of Income as Coronavirus Fears Grow


Health-care stocks have been volatile, partly owing to concerns about heightened regulation that may come about depending on the outcome of the presidential election in November. Many of these stocks, however, offer solid dividends with attractive yields at a time when coronavirus fears are intensifying.

“Health care is one of those areas where you do have innovation but many of those innovative companies do pay a dividend,” says Charles Toole, a portfolio manager at Adviser Investments who helps run a strategy focused on dividend stocks. “This happens to be a sector where we are finding good dividends and good dividend growth prospects.”

Thanks to falling stock prices in the wake of the coronavirus scare, the yields of many health-care stocks are even higher than they were 10 days ago, and the valuations look reasonable overall. The Health Care Select Sector SPDR Fund (ticker: XLV) recently fetched 15.7 times this year’s profit estimate, below its five-year average of 16.7 times, according to FactSet.

Healthy Dividends
Health-care stocks have been volatile over the past year, but their attractive dividends can help ease any pain.

Toole’s holdings include pharmaceutical company AbbVie (ABBV), which yields 5.4%; biotech firm Amgen (AMGN), 3%; managed-care provider Anthem (ANTM), 1.4%; health-care conglomerate Johnson & Johnson (JNJ), 2.7%; and medical-device maker Medtronic (MDT), 2.1%.

Year to date, health-care stocks have held up relatively well compared to the S&P 500, which is down about 4%. Health-care stocks in the S&P 500 have lost about 5%, making it one of the best-performing sectors. Energy has fallen more than 20%, and financials are off about 10%.

A big overhang for health-care stocks—and managed-care companies in particular—is the specter of a Medicare for All system that has been advocated by Democratic presidential candidate Bernie Sanders. But for Sanders to secure the Democratic nomination, defeat President Trump in November, and then manage to get Congress to pass a Medicare for All system will be hard to pull off.

“Despite heightened election-year rhetoric, we continue to believe that fundamental structural reform of the U.S. health-care system is unlikely,” the portfolio managers of the Hartford Healthcare Fund (HGHAX) wrote in their 2020 assessment.

As of Dec. 31, the fund’s top holdings included Pfizer (PFE), which yields 4.3%; Abbott Laboratories (ABT), 1.8%; and Bristol-Myers Squibb (BMY), 3%. Bristol-Myers this past week declared a quarterly dividend of 45 cents a share, up from 41 cents, for a 10% boost. The stock yields 3%.

In this uncertain and volatile market, a healthy dose of income could be just what the doctor ordered.