GlaxoSmithKline’s Promising Drug Pipeline Should Drive the Stock Higher

Pharmaceuticals are one of the defensive stocks in the current crisis, for obvious reasons. However, it is too early to quantify the magnitude of a coronavirus benefit.

But GlaxoSmithKline (ticker: GSK) is worth paying attention to for unrelated developments that aren’t yet factored into its value. Its trial of Cabotegravir, a regular injection to prevent HIV infection, has been stopped three years early because of its success: Tests showed it to be 69% more effective than Truvada, a tablet produced by competitor Gilead Sciences (GILD), the current gold standard.

The market for HIV prevention, known as pre-exposure prophylaxis, or PrEP, is a $2 billion opportunity for pharma firms that is expected to rise to $5.5 billion by 2030.

Glaxo looks set to unlock some value in other ways. It is undergoing a restructuring, spinning off the consumer-health division that makes Advil and Panadol, and has a strong pipeline of potential blockbusters on the way.

The United Kingdom–based company’s stock slid along with most other stocks at the height of the pandemic, falling to 1,374 pence ($17.29) in March. It has recovered in the past month, rising 4.96%, to 1,651 pence. French bank Société Générale has marked the stock a Buy, estimating that it will rise 35.6%, to 2,240 pence.

UBS also marked it a Buy with a price target of 1,920 pence. UBS analyst Laura Sutcliffe wrote in a May note that PrEP is a multibillion opportunity for Gilead, “but we think consensus estimates include little or nothing for GSK in this market (either by expanding it or taking share from Gilead), so approval, whether based on one study or two, offers upside in our view.”

Glaxo, the U.K.’s fifth-largest firm, with a market value of 82.7 billion pounds sterling ($104.11 billion), employs about 100,000. The company fetches 14.2 times this year’s expected earnings. and is valued at a 30% discount to its peers. The stock offers the highest dividend yield of European Union large-cap pharma, according to analysts at Jefferies.

Glaxo posted a pretax profit of £6.2 billion for 2019, up from £4.8 billion the year before, on sales of £33 billion. In April, it posted a 19% rise in first-quarter sales.

CEO Emma Walmsley told Barron’s that the priority is to continue progress with the research-and-development pipeline, and support new-product launches.

“Recent data readouts—including in oncology and HIV—have been positive and underpin our decision to further increase investment in R&D as part of our new approach, which focuses on science related to the immune system, use of genetics, and new technologies,’’ she says.

Glaxo has started a two-year program to get it ready to “set up two new leading companies in biopharma and consumer health care,” she says. She added that the business is also focused on developing multiple vaccines for the Covid-19 crisis “using our unique adjuvant technology.”

The company’s vaccine business had overall sales of £7.2 billion, and the consumer-health division that’s being spun off will generate £500 million in annual savings by 2023. Analysts at broker Liberum say this is an “important year” for Glaxo, with six potential drug approvals in 2020, and several of “blockbuster potential.”

But it is Viiv Healthcare, a joint venture with Pfizer (PFE) that could unlock hidden value with Cabotegravir.

The drug has the potential to replace Truvada, which relies on users remembering to take a daily tablet to be protected from HIV.

Cabotegravir’s bimonthly injection has close to 100% adherence and, if adopted, could be a welcome boost to Glaxo’s stock. B