Stocks Close Higher on Strong U.S. Jobs Data

Global stocks ended the week on a high note, as hope for a coronavirus vaccine buoyed markets. Yet initial enthusiasm faded slightly by the close of the holiday-shortened week, the optimism about the latest U.S. jobs data was somewhat tempered by fears that another round of stimulus could be delayed, as well as ongoing virus spread.

In the latest indication of the speed and path of the U.S. economic recovery, the Labor Department said 4.8 million jobs were added in June, while the unemployment rate fell to 11.1%. Economists had expected a gain of 3 million jobs, building on the unexpected addition of 2.5 million jobs in May, according to FactSet. The unemployment rate was expected to fall from 13.3% to 12.3%.

However, markets gave up some of their gains following commentary from Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, who said he wanted to wait for additional economic data before moving forward with another relief package. On Wednesday, Philip Lane, the chief economist of the European Central Bank, suggested that it may be time for the bank to pause stimulus as that bloc’s economy recovers.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average ended up 92.4 points, or 0.4% to 25827.36. The S&P 500 climbed 0.5% to 3130.0, while the Nasdaq Composite gained 0.5% to 10207.6, a record.

The pan-European Stoxx 600 index rose 2%, while the German DAX climbed 2.8% and the French CAC was 2.5% higher. Asian markets were higher too, following Wall Street’s gains on Wednesday.

Oil also climbed, with the price of West Texas Intermediate up 1.2% to $40.30 a barrel.

The upward momentum created as Pfizer (ticker: PFE) and BioNTech (BNTX) announced positive trial results for a potential coronavirus vaccine on Wednesday was also lifting stocks. Investors have largely ignored rising coronavirus cases in the U.S. and across the world, homing in on the vaccine developments and signs of a global economic recovery instead.

Tesla (TSLA) shares surged 8% and are poised to top $1,200 apiece. The gain for the electric-car company follows the release of surprisingly strong figures on vehicle deliveries, not to mention a bullish note from Wedbush, which said the stock could hit $2,000. Hopes are rising about Tesla’s possible inclusion in the S&P 500.

PG&E (PCG) shares are up 4.7% after the utility emerged from bankruptcy protection late Wednesday, one week after its financing plan was approved.

Boeing (BA) shares edged up 0.3%, losing some of their earlier fizz, after the plane manufacturer completed its recertification flights for its 737 MAX jet, which has been grounded since March 2019. There are still several steps the Federal Aviation Administration is completing—including a data review and approval of a pilot training program—before the plane can return to service.

Amazon.com (AMZN) is up 0.4% as it cruised toward a record nine consecutive weeks of gains, helped by the continuing shift toward cloud computing.