An Unhappy 4th of July

America will celebrate its 244th birthday on Saturday—but there’s nothing to celebrate about the latest coronavirus numbers.

Just ahead of the July 4th holiday weekend, almost 53,000 new Covid-19 cases were diagnosed in the U.S. on Wednesday, according to the Covid Tracking Project, a record.

The number of cases is up about 37% over the past week. Testing is up as well, but only by 17% over the same span. The positive test rate, as a result, is up almost two percentage points compared with a week ago.

The news gets worse. Thirty-one states are “trending poorly,” according to covidexitstrategy.org, a site created by a group of public health officials. Only three states—New York, New Jersey and Connecticut—are “trending positively.” The other 16 states are “making progress.”

Americans will still, no doubt, celebrate, but Covid-19 is radically altering celebrations this year. Gone will be large fireworks displays with thousands gathered to watch. Barbecues will be smaller.

The typical party admonition “enjoy responsibly” applies, of course. It just takes on a whole new meaning in 2020.

—Al Root

***
Bracing for Economic Whiplash
A surge in cases in the South and West is forcing states to reverse reopenings and is challenging the nascent economic recovery that is under way.

In more signs that the recovery is slowing, ADP reported Wednesday that private employers added 700,000 fewer jobs in June than in May, and today’s unemployment figures are expected to show that tens of millions of Americans remain out of work. Mortgage applications also fell for the second week in a row, possibly signaling weakening demand.
The expansion of unemployment benefits has helped workers who lost their jobs in recent months through the worst stretch of layoffs since the Great Depression, causing personal income to rise in May. Now Americans face an “income cliff,” with those generous new unemployment benefits set to expire at the end of July.
News of a vaccine developed by drug giant Pfizer and its German biotech partner BioNTech offered a silver lining, as did the extension of the Paycheck Protection Program aimed at keeping workers on the payroll through government loans that will be forgiven if companies meet certain criteria.
“The imminent threat of collapsing incomes helps explain why consumer spending has fallen so much more than wages and salaries. Many Americans are saving what they can in preparation for the possibility that their incomes could soon collapse. That caution is understandable, but it’s also making the economic downturn worse than it otherwise would be.” –Barron’s Matthew C. Klein

What’s Next: The U.S. is fighting a health crisis and an economic crisis simultaneously. Many state governors declared victory over the former and are now facing the first—and in some cases like California, second—wave in their states. The latter threat still remains.

—Ben Walsh

***
Hong Kong Police Crack Down on Protesters
On the 23rd anniversary of Hong Kong’s handover from the British, thousands of demonstrators took to the streets to protest a new national security law that vastly curtails residents’ civil rights. Hong Kong police moved quickly to use their new powers to arrest 10 people, The Wall Street Journal reported.

The new law allows for mainland security forces to operate in the semi-autonomous city and allows crimes that Beijing has often broadly and somewhat arbitrarily defined like subverting state power, collusion with foreign forces, and secessionist activities to be punished by life in prison.
On Wednesday, the police arrested about 370 protesters. Ten of those arrested were done so under the new law, including a man carrying Hong Kong-independence flags and a woman holding a sign with U.S. and U.K. flags on it.
The U.S. has condemned the new law and moved to revoke Hong Kong’s special status, which allows it to function as a hub of global trade and finance, and imposed visa restrictions on any government official or business executive involved in enforcing it.
The House unanimously passed a bill sanctioning China for its new security law. The bill, which is similar but not the same as the one passed in the Senate last week, will goes to the Senate next and then to President Donald Trump.
“Xi and the CCP leadership were never going to back down from pushing through this law, no matter how much the Trump administration threatened. Now the U.S. is in a bit of a bind, as the measures threatened so far look like they harm Hong Kong citizens and U.S. interests more than they impact Xi and the CCP.” –Bill Bishop, author of Sinocism

What’s Next: After Wednesday’s protests, the Journal reported, a spokesman for the Chinese army stationed on the island said “the garrison officers and soldiers will resolutely implement the government’s decision-making.” With protests showing no signs of abating, that likely means more arrests and scenes of pepper spray in Hong Kong streets.

—Ben Walsh

***
States Move to Contain Virus Spread
State and local officials are slowing down reopening plans as Covid-19 cases spike in areas where restaurants and bars earlier resumed service.

New York City and New Jersey delayed a return for indoor dining, while California brought back a shutdown on most indoor establishments.
Dr. Anthony Fauci earlier this week recommended against going to bars and congregating indoors.
What’s Next: Apple decided to re-close 30 more U.S. retail stores, citing current Covid-19 conditions. Now, 77 of its 271 U.S. stores are closed. McDonald’s also halted plans to bring back dine-in services in additional U.S. restaurants for three weeks, The Wall Street Journal reported.

—Connor Smith

***
Stars Ask U.K. to Face the Music Crisis
Paul McCartney, the Rolling Stones, Ed Sheeran and other star musicians have penned an open letter asking the U.K. government to help the live music business (concerts and festivals) survive the devastating impact of the coronavirus pandemic.

The U.K. so far has addressed “two important British pastimes—football and pubs. It’s now crucial that it focuses on a third, live music,” says the letter sent to Oliver Dowden, the U.K.’s culture secretary.
The authors of the letter note that live music, deemed “one of the U.K.’s biggest social, cultural, and economic successes of the past decade,” adds £4.5 billion to the British economy and supports 210,000 jobs.
Annie Lennox, Rod Stewart, Radiohead, Coldplay and Rita Ora are among the more than 1,400 signatories.
Hundreds of events, including some of the most prestigious festivals, have been canceled in the U.K. this summer, and the letter notes that the situation is likely to last well into 2021.
What’s Next: The idea of Mick Jagger or Paul McCartney asking for financial aid may raise some ironic eyebrows. But few industries have such high-profile lobbyists, as cries for help from all corners of the economy are piling up on the desk of U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer Rishi Sunak.

—Pierre Briançon

***
There’s a Trillion Dollar Investing Opportunity in Green Innovation
Bill Gross, founder and chairman of technology start-up incubator IdeaLab, told Barron’s readers who joined this week’s Investing in Tech conference that combating climate change is more than just a moral decision—it’s a trillion dollar opportunity.

“I feel that solving climate change with technology is the single biggest investment opportunity in history, not just in this decade, but in history,” Gross told attendees.
During the panel, Gross discussed several out-of-the-box ideas for confronting climate change that came down to affordability. “You can’t change the world with a few people making a statement,” Gross said. “You change the world when everybody moves to something because it’s more cost-effective.”
The conference also featured a conversation with Kim Polese, co-founder and chairman of CrowdSmart, on how artificial intelligence can democratize venture capital funding.
“What we’re really talking about is using a combination of human and machine intelligence to improve the way that diligence is done,” she said.
The day ended with Kelly Steckelberg, CFO of Zoom, discussing the start-up’s explosive growth. “We’ve had over 100,000 schools for K-12 to sign up to use our platform which has been amazing.”
What’s Next: Join us next Wednesday at 1 p.m. to hear conversations with Jill Woodworth, CEO of Peloton, and Sir Martin Sorrell, founder and executive chairman of S4 Capital.

—Shaina Mishkin

***
Your Questions, Answered by MarketWatch
On Monday, readers wrote in to ask if they should cancel travel rewards credit cards during the pandemic?

A recent poll from CreditCards.com found that one in five people who have a credit card that charges an annual fee think they’re getting less value out of their cards during the pandemic.

Some credit-card issuers, including Chase and American Express, have broadened the benefits associated with their top-tier rewards cards. Many of these cards tended to focus their rewards on travel purchases—but with those being few and far between, they have begun rewarding cardholders for spending at restaurants and grocery stores to keep them as customers.

But not all companies have taken these steps. “On many annual fee cards, you’re sacrificing value if you redeem for cash back,” said Ted Rossman, an industry analyst at CreditCards.com.

Unfortunately for consumers stuck with credit cards they’re not getting much use out of, canceling the cards isn’t a straightforward solution. Yes, doing so will save them money if they have another annual fee payment on the horizon—but there can be significant drawbacks.

Read more here.

—Jacob Passy

***
—Newsletter edited by Stacy Ozol, Mary Romano, Anita Hamilton, Matt Bemer, Benjamin Levisohn