Pfizer and BioNTech Agree to Supply U.K. With 30 Million Doses of Covid-19 Vaccine


The drug giant Pfizer and its partner, the German biotech BioNTech, said early Monday that they had reached a deal to supply 30 million doses of their Covid-19 vaccine to the U.K. this year and next.

The financial terms weren’t disclosed, and the companies said payments would depend on the size and timing of the deliveries. Despite the lack of detail, investors took the announcement as a sign of confidence in the Covid-19 program. Shares of Pfizer (ticker: PFE) were up 2.5% shortly after Monday’s open, while shares of BioNTech (BNTX) jumped 12.3%.
Also boosting the stocks were new data the companies released Monday that appeared to support the promising results on a Phase 1/2 trial of the vaccine unveiled in early July. In a paper posted on a so-called preprint server on Monday but not yet peer reviewed, company scientists published interim data from the trial of the vaccine in Germany that found it had elicited T-cell responses in participants. T-cells are a type of immune system response.

The move by the U.K. presages the coming international scramble for the limited doses of Covid-19 vaccines under development. Though various drugmakers say they each aim to have a billion doses or more of their experimental vaccines ready by the end of next year, some of those programs likely won’t work, and supply chains could be tight.

Meanwhile, the new German data on the vaccine makes the Pfizer and BioNTech experimental program appear even more promising. While much attention has been paid to the ability of the experimental Covid-19 vaccines to elicit antibody responses, T-cell responses may also be important to preventing Covid-19 infections. The new data from the German trial, involving 60 participants, are similar to those included in the earlier U.S. data on the vaccine, which found that the vaccine successfully induced the creation of neutralizing antibodies at levels higher than those found in patients who had recovered from Covid-19 infections. In addition, it found a T-cell response that wasn’t clearly dose dependent.

“It is encouraging that the data on BNT162b1 from the German study cohort are very much in line with what we have seen in the U.S. study cohort,” BioNTech’s chief medical officer, Özlem Türeci, said in a statement. “The preliminary data indicate that our mRNA-based vaccine was able to stimulate antibody as well as T-cell responses at remarkably low dose levels.”

The agreement with the U.K. is the first announced commitment of Pfizer and BioNTech’s vaccine to a national government. The company said it is in confidential discussions with other governments. The company also said it is interested in possibly supplying vaccine doses to the Covax Facility, an international effort to distribute Covid-19 vaccine equitably around the world.

The Pfizer program is among the fastest-moving efforts in the battle against Covid-19. The company is testing four versions of its messenger RNA-based vaccine. Early data have been promising. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration granted two of the versions of the vaccine fast-track designation last week, which is meant to speed up review and approval. Pfizer and BioNTech say they expect to seek regulatory approval or authorization of the vaccine as early as October.

Pfizer is testing its vaccine as a two-dose regimen, suggesting that the 30 million doses committed to the U.K. would be enough to vaccinate 15 million people. The population of the United Kingdom is just over 65 million people. The company aims to make 100 million doses of the vaccine by the end of this year, and “potentially more than 1.3 billion doses” by the end of next year.

Pfizer’s news came as investors waited on an expected paper detailing the results of a Phase 1 trial of the Covid-19 vaccine developed by Oxford University in collaboration with AstraZeneca (AZN). Reports in the U.K. media have teased the results as positive. A paper is expected to be published soon in the Lancet, a British medical journal.