3 Potential 2020 Election Outcomes — and What They Could Mean for Investors

Based on several closely watched voter polls and betting markets, former Vice President Joseph Biden will be the next president of the U.S., vanquishing President Donald Trump in the Nov. 3 election. Then again, election polls are notoriously unreliable, as Hillary Clinton—and President Trump—learned in 2016.

With less than 100 days to go before this year’s U.S. elections, anything could change, from voter sentiment to the candidates’ standing to the trajectory of the coronavirus pandemic, which has sickened millions, killed more than 150,000, and driven the nation’s economy into the worst downturn since the Great Depression. All the more reason, then, for investors to hedge their bets on the election results, preparing for several possible outcomes—each with different implications for policy, the economy, and financial markets.

Under one scenario, the status quo would prevail, with Trump winning re-election, Republicans retaining control of the Senate, and Democrats continuing to rule the House of Representatives. In an alternative scenario, the so-called blue wave, voters would send Biden to the White House and put the Democrats in control of both houses of Congress. A third possibility, which doesn’t get as much attention as the other two but arguably should, is that Biden is elected president but the Senate stays in the GOP’s grip.

Here is our analysis of what each scenario would mean for investors.President Trump Is Re-Elected; Republicans Keep the Senate
It seems too easy to dismiss a status-quo outcome as Covid-19 cases continue to rise, U.S. deaths from the virus top 150,000, and an incipient economic recovery already threatens to derail.

Biden’s lead nationally over President Trump stands at about seven points, according to RealClearPolitics, while the former vice president has a five-point advantage across the six key battleground states of Michigan, Wisconsin, Florida, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, and Arizona. The betting market PredictIt places 60% odds on a Biden victory, and 70% of Americans say the country is on the wrong track.

But not so fast; if Congress negotiates another round of fiscal spending, including more direct checks to households, the economy could spring back to life before November, greasing Trump’s path to a second term. “If the economy is back by Election Day, President Trump could claim he navigated through the crisis and take credit,” says Ed Clissold, chief U.S. strategist at Ned Davis Research.

Andy Laperriere, head of U.S. policy research at Cornerstone Macro, places a 35% chance on the president winning re-election. If that were to happen, says Laperriere, there is almost no chance that Republicans would lose control of the Senate.

Under this outcome, Keith Parker, head of global equity strategy at UBS, sees about 2% upside for the stock market in the election’s immediate aftermath. Fears of more regulation and higher taxes could abate, but would be offset by uncertainties surrounding trade, he says.

Four more years of market-friendly tax and regulatory policies could benefit smaller companies and technology and financial firms, Laperriere says. Shares of traditional energy companies and defense contractors also could get a lift. While policy strategists generally don’t foresee much more coronavirus relief for households and corporations from a second Trump term and a Republican Senate, the government could give more aid to state and local governments facing substantial revenue shortfalls amid the pandemic.

Laperriere thinks a “status quo” portfolio should include exposure to the iShares Russell 2000 exchange-traded fund (ticker: IWM), the Invesco QQQ Trust (QQQ), and the Financial Select Sector SPDR (XLF)—plays, respectively, on small companies, big tech stocks, and banks.

Individual beneficiaries of a deregulatory environment might include Goldman Sachs (GS), lenders SLM ( SLM ) and World Acceptance (WRLD), and Exxon Mobil (XOM) and Energy Transfer (ET). Lockheed Martin (LMT) could be a good wager on higher defense spending.

Ongoing trade uncertainty and higher tariffs presumably would hurt China more than the U.S., but could lead to Chinese retaliation against companies such as Apple (AAPL) and U.S. retailers, making the SPDR S&P Retail ETF (XRT) vulnerable to a selloff.
A Democratic Sweep
If the election were held today, a Biden victory, with the Democrats winning control of the Senate and keeping control of the House, would be the most likely outcome. Betting markets reflect a more than 60% chance of a so-called blue wave in November, meaning that Democrats would pick up at least three Senate seats, leaving a Democratic vice president as a potential tie-breaker. Six seats currently held by Republicans are considered toss-ups by the nonpartisan Cook Political Report. Laperriere puts the chance of a blue wave at 45%.

A Democratic sweep would mean higher taxes: Biden has proposed reversing half of the Trump corporate tax cut, which would raise the tax rate to 28%. He has also proposed introducing a Social Security “donut hole” by levying the Social Security payroll tax on wages above $400,000. His plan would restore the top personal income-tax rate of 39.6% (Trump lowered it to 37%), phase out the 20% deduction on qualified business income, and reinstate the deductions for those with income above $400,000.

There’s more: A Biden administration would eliminate preferential treatment of capital gains and dividends for higher earners, raise taxes on income earned by foreign subsidiaries of U.S. companies, and tax unrealized capital gains at death. (For closer look at both candidates’ tax plans, see page 23.)

Given the prospect of higher taxes and increased regulation, Parker, the UBS strategist, thinks that stocks could fall 2% to 5% after a Democratic sweep. But this could be a buying opportunity, he says.

Markets often overestimate the likelihood and magnitude of proposed policies, and tax increases, he argues, could be less burdensome than feared. That’s because any Democrats unseating Senate Republicans probably would be more conservative than most Democrats in Congress. Also, tax increases could be delayed if the pandemic still is raging in 2021.

In the event of an evenly split Senate, moreover, a blue wave reliant on the vice president’s Senate vote would make for a flimsier mandate than a clear Democratic majority. Parker says full implementation of Biden’s tax plan would shave 8% off of S&P 500 index earnings. A smaller-than-proposed tax hike, such as a 24% corporate tax rate, up from today’s 21%, would translate into a hit of about 4%.
Analysis by Clissold of Ned Davis Research shows that stocks have risen more under Democratic presidents, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average posting an average gain of 7.8% a year, versus 3.3% under Republican presidents. Adjusted for inflation, the spread narrows to 3.8% and 1.1%, respectively. But when Democrats have controlled both the White House and Congress, the Dow has gained an average of 3% annually, compared with 7.1% when the Republicans have held both the presidency and Congress.

The impact of a blue wave on the economy and stock market could be lessened if spending outpaces tax increases, as seems likely. The effect on corporate earnings would be neutral, Parker says. Democrats’ spending priorities would center on health care, education, and infrastructure, focusing on an expansion of the Affordable Care Act, universal pre-kindergarten, student-loan forgiveness, and outlays for schools, highways, and a transition to a green economy.

But much would depend on the trajectory of the coronavirus. “Regardless of who wins, if Covid is still front and center, it will consume a lot of the oxygen,” says Michael Pugliese, an economist at Wells Fargo.

Investors creating a “Biden portfolio” should overweight green-energy stocks such as Tesla (TSLA) and First Solar (FSLR), says Cornerstone’s Laperriere. He likes Vulcan Materials (VMC), Granite Construction (GVA), and Martin Marietta Materials (MLM) as infrastructure plays, and recommends exposure to cannabis through the ETFMG Alternative Harvest ETF (MJ), based on the likelihood that Democrats will relax banking laws that currently restrict commercial business with companies, such as cannabis sellers, that are outlawed under federal regulations.

The Democrats’ labor agenda is underappreciated, says Laperriere. A Democratic sweep probably would lead to a higher minimum wage and more protections for gig-economy workers, making companies such as McDonald’s (MCD) and Uber Technologies (UBER) vulnerable. While both parties have been critical of Big Tech, a blue wave would be the bigger threat to Amazon.com (AMZN), Facebook (FB), and others, since Democrats have been more vocal about breaking up, regulating, and taxing the tech giants.

Biden Wins the White House; Republicans Keep the Senate
This is the least-discussed electoral outcome but one that shouldn’t be dismissed. Voters have shown they like a check on the presidency, and if votes cast for Biden are meant to reflect not approval for the candidate but votes against Trump, down-ticket candidates might not benefit.

A split government of this sort might be best for the markets, as investors would get Biden’s more-predictable trade policy focused on buying American, plus an effective continuation of Trump’s tax policy. Clissold’s analysis shows that a Democratic president with a split Congress has coincided with an average 8% annual gain in the Dow Jones Industrial Average.

While markets might be assuming a Biden presidency, they aren’t pricing in a Republican Senate, UBS analysts say. That scenario could push stocks up 4% postelection, and prove more positive for markets than a status-quo outcome. Analysts say that the diminished trade risk and increased predictability of a Biden presidency would outweigh higher regulatory costs.

Both parties have high drug prices in their sights, but the risks to shares of pharmaceutical companies like Pfizer (PFE) and Gilead Sciences (GILD) are far less without a blue sweep, says Laperriere. The same is true for Big Tech. Pharma and tech would be affected by an increase in the tax on Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income, or GILTI, proposed by Biden but dead on arrival without a blue wave.
What to Watch Now
From the day after the second convention to the day before the election, the Dow has gained a median 5.7% when the incumbent party has subsequently won, and lost 1.4% when the incumbent party has lost, Clissold says. Its performance has correctly predicted about 75% of the past 30 elections. Party conventions are all but scrapped this year; the Democrats meet, mostly virtually, on Aug. 17-20, and the Republicans are expected to formally nominate Trump on Aug. 24.

As for polls, Cornerstone’s Laperriere says that they’re generally right. But some skepticism is warranted, especially this year, given the virus’ unpredictable impact on the economy.

In other words, investors should start to position for a possible change in leadership. But just don’t forget that this election is far from over.

