High-Yielding Stocks Have Faltered in 2020—But Some See Value

The market hasn’t had much respect this pandemic-stricken year for higher-yielding stocks, but some investment professionals believe select companies among those laggards stand to benefit from a value rally.

During the first 7½ months of 2020, the 100 top-performing stocks in the S&P 500 notched an average total return of 35.54%, according to Matrix Asset Advisors. Those stocks—which include many highflying tech companies that don’t pay dividends, such as Amazon.com (ticker: AMZN), Facebook (FB), and Netflix (NFLX)—yielded only 0.85% as of Aug. 14.

And for the 100 worst-performing S&P 500 stocks, including such names as Schlumberger (SLB) and Exxon Mobil (XOM), the average return was minus 38.89% and their average yield was 3.07%. For context, the S&P 500’s recent average yield was nearly 1.7%.

The common denominator among many of these higher-yielding stocks is that they fall into the value-investing camp, given their deep discounts. But that could change in coming months, at least in part, as yield-hungry investors bid up value stocks.

David Katz, chief investment officer at Matrix Asset Advisors in White Plains, N.Y., argues that valuation disparities between growth and value stocks are at “such extreme level that gravity is going to take hold as far as the very expensive parts of the market and the parts of the market that are too cheap.”

Katz points out that growth stocks traded at a 15% premium to value names on average going back to 1995, according to Matrix Asset Advisors and Bloomberg data. Stocks in the S&P 500 are used to compare growth and value.

However, growth stocks recently traded at twice the valuation of value names. Before the recent spike, the gap between growth and value peaked in 2000 before narrowing when the tech-stock bubble burst. From 2000 through 2008, growth stocks traded at a discount to value, but since then, growth stocks have steadily powered higher.

Translation: He expects the bottom performers, and their return-boosting yields, to rally while the hottest performers cool off. He warns that this turnabout won’t lift all laggards, and works “as long as you are buying companies that are going to be around with good cash flow.”

Of course, when the tide turns is anyone’s guess. Value stocks have lagged behind growth stocks for many years and exactly what will change that meaningfully is uncertain. Consider that the Russell 1000 Growth Index has a 10-year annual return of 17.7%, compared with 10.6% for the corresponding value index, according to FactSet.

There were only a few stocks among the best-performing S&P 500 stocks that sport attractive yields. They include United Parcel Service (UPS), which yields 2.5%, and has returned 40% this year, compared with about 6% for the S&P 500. Consumer-staples company General Mills (GIS) has returned about 21%; it yields 3.1%. Other strong performers with yields above 2% include Home Depot (HD) and Qualcomm (QCOM).
“Beyond that, it’s been very tough sledding for [higher-yielding] dividend stocks,” says Katz.

Still, Katz and others remain optimistic that solid dividend-paying value stocks will begin to do better over the next six to 12 months.

“A recovery in dividend payments is increasingly likely, given the sharp rebound of dividend sentiment expressed by management during the [second-quarter] earnings conference calls,” Dennis DeBusschere of Evercore ISI said in a recent note.

He added that equities remain attractive relative to 10-year U.S. Treasuries. The yield on that bond was recently at 0.67%, about one percentage point below the S&P 500’s yield.

DeBusschere keeps tabs on several sustainable dividend-growth portfolios, one of which selects companies from the S&P 500. They include such high-yielding plays as Amgen (AMGN), which yields 2.6%; JPMorgan Chase (JPM), 3.6%; Pfizer (PFE), 4%; and T. Rowe Price Group (TROW), 2.6%.

“Another period of value outperformance as Covid case growth improves should add a tailwind to dividend strategies as well as the [sustainable dividend growth] strategies,” DeBusschere notes.

Pankaj Patel, head of quantitative research Cirrus Research, says that “we still believe a combination of high yield, low payout ratio, and high dividend growth will continue to do well.”

However, the firm’s large-cap sustainable and growing dividends portfolio has underperformed the market this year, Patel wrote in a recent note.

Two of the stocks that fit the firm’s dividend criteria include Bank of New York Mellon (BK), which yields 3.4%, and Anthem (ANTM), a managed-care company, which yields 1.3%. Bank of New York shares have returned minus 25% this year, while Anthem’s are down about 5%.

Patel points out that various dividend ETFs illustrate the performance disparities that have occurred in 2020. The Vanguard Dividend Appreciation ETF (VIG) had returned about 4% this year, as of Aug. 17, compared with minus 18% for the iShares Select Dividend ETF (DVY). The latter has a big overweighting in utilities and financials, for example, and those sectors have lagged behind the broader market despite their higher yields.

Amid all of the lagging dividend stocks this year, Katz sees value in such names as Coca-Cola (KO), which yields 3.4%; CVS Health (CVS), 3.1%; Pinnacle West Capital (PNW), 4.2%; and AT&T (T), 7%. Shares of Coke and CVS are off about 10%. Pinnacle West Capital is down about 13%, and AT&T has dropped about 20%.

Says Katz: “We do think you will get some form of a reversion to the mean where growth slows down and/or value has a significant catchup.”

That would be a welcome boost for many dividend stocks.