For Moderna, a Coronavirus Vaccine Would Be the “Tip of the Iceberg”


The coronavirus vaccine being developed by Moderna could be “just the tip of the iceberg” for the biotech company, Piper Sandler biotech analyst Ted Tenthoff said on a Barron’s Live call Wednesday.

“While it’s addressing an unmet, and just a massive, need in the world right now, it is also really an investment that goes to expand the company’s platform,” Tenthoff said about the company’s Sars-Cov-2 vaccine. On a call with Barron’s readers, the analyst discussed the Moderna (ticker: MRNA) vaccine’s potentially broad applications, development timeline, and promising Phase I trial report that sent stocks soaring Monday.

While the world is waiting for a coronavirus vaccine that could restore a sense of normalcy, some of Moderna’s appeal lies in the science behind the vaccine, Tenthoff said. “The key thing about the Moderna approach is it’s modular,” he explained. “You have the same delivery vehicle, and you just swap out the mRNA [messenger RNA] for the antigen for the specific disease.”

The technology could have implications for other vaccines the company is developing, including those for cytomegalovirus, respiratory viruses, and Epstein-Barr virus.

On Monday, optimistic news about early human trials sent shares of Moderna up about 20%, although the stock gave back some of those gains the next day following a report that called for caution in interpreting the company’s statement. The article, published in Stat, said Moderna’s report revealed little actual data from the Phase I trial. Shares were down 8.8% Thursday morning, to $67.

The reason for the lack of data, Tenthoff said, is the vaccine’s quick development timeline. “What I think critics were saying is, ‘why didn’t they report all the data?’” Tenthoff said. “They’re moving as fast as they can here. The goal is to get a vaccine to the public as quickly as possible.”

The potential vaccine still has a long way to go—as Barron’s previously reported, the FDA has yet to approve a vaccine based on messenger RNA—but Tenthoff said the testing timeline could move quickly, with a Phase II study set to begin this quarter, and Phase III trials starting as early as July. “It would be a very fast turnaround to get that available to the public early next year,” Tenthoff said. “We have to see the data from each of these steps, but that would really be kind of a best-case scenario.”

Moderna, which partnered with vaccine manufacturer Lonza Group (LONN.Switzerland) in early May, expects to be able to manufacture one billion doses a year, Tenthoff said. At two doses per patient, “they could cover the entire United States by next year,” Tenthoff said. “But there is obviously global demand beyond what just Moderna is doing”

Moderna isn’t the only company developing a potential vaccine—and “we really want to be rooting for all of them,” Tenthoff said, citing efforts by Pfizer (PFE) and Johnson & Johnson (JNJ). “We need a lot of these to really protect not just people here in the U.S. but also people around the globe. We want it to come as quickly as it can so that we can start to get back to life as we knew it.”