Pharma and Biotech Aren’t Worried About Democratic Candidates’ Attacks Against Drugmakers

SAN FRANCISCO—As brigades of pharmaceutical executives and money managers arrived here for the biggest health-care investor conference of the year, it was looking as if Sen. Bernie Sanders could win the Iowa caucuses.

While the caucuses are not always a great predictor of who the presidential nominee will be, a poll released on the evening of Jan. 10 found that Sanders leads his Democratic rivals in the state. That is probably not good news for drugmakers.

“We are going to take on the greed and corruption of the pharmaceutical industry,” Sanders said from the debate stage on Jan. 14. “That is what Democratic socialism is about, and that will win this election.”

But in the meeting rooms and hallways of the J.P. Morgan Healthcare Conference this past week, the attitude toward the 2020 race was: What, me worry?

“I try to spend as little time thinking about politics as possible,” said Bill Maris, founder of Section 32, a venture-capital firm that invests in start-up life-sciences firms.

Investors seemed to agree. While the benchmark that tracks the big health-insurance companies, the S&P 500 Managed Care Index, dropped 2.9% on Jan. 13, the first trading day after the poll came out, the S&P 500 Pharmaceuticals Index was up slightly that day and has continued to rise—up 2.3% as of Friday’s close.

The outcome of the 2020 race will do more than affect the broader economic climate. It will determine the leadership of the Food and Drug Administration, which has life-or-death power over the industry; it could lead to drug-price regulations; and, if it comes with a Democratic-controlled Congress—a big if, to be sure—it might even spur a move toward a full-scale overhaul of the health-care system.

So why are investors and industry executives not doing a bit of anxious knuckle-cracking?

When asked, many pharmaceutical and biotech executives offer the same answer: Whatever happens, our company’s drugs are important enough that we’ll get paid fairly for them.

“The most resilient place to be in such a chaotic environment is to have great science,” said Paul Hudson, the newly minted CEO of Sanofi (ticker: SNY), the big French drug company.

The CEO of the small biotech Dicerna Pharmaceuticals (DRNA), Douglas Fambrough, echoed that. “Regardless of what gets passed, we’re adding a lot of value,” he said. “That value’s going to get recognized at some level.”

Even in contemplating a change at the top of the FDA, which approved 48 new drugs in 2019, executives said it would probably not affect approvals. There were 59 new drug approvals in 2018, and just 22 in 2016.

“[Scott] Gottlieb was a very good commissioner,” said Warren Huff, CEO of Reata Phamaceuticals (RETA), a biotech company, referring to the current Pfizer (PFE) board member who ran the FDA during the bulk of President Donald Trump’s term to date.

“The commissioners do affect the agency over time, and I don’t think it is ideological, but the people who get picked do matter, and some FDA commissioners are better than others,” Huff said.

Indeed, the J.P. Morgan conference felt like an island of extraordinary complacency. The event fills the hotels around San Francisco’s Union Square, and executives boast of taking upward of 20 meetings a day. Attendees pay $2.75 per banana in a hotel lobby and, on their way to meetings, pass by desperate scenes on the streets, where America’s homeless, mental-health, and addiction crises are on full display.

The conference started with a thud. No major deal emerged on the first day, a break with tradition, and the leading biotech index stumbled. It regained its losses a day later. On the conference’s third day, Seema Verma, the administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, resurfaced the argument for international reference pricing, a proposal to peg the prices of drugs paid by some government insurance programs to the prices paid overseas.

“People feel like it’s not fair to our seniors and our population that they’re shouldering the world’s innovation,” Verma said. “Certainly, we are a more developed country, and there’s a role to play, but the differentials are getting hard to justify.”

That might be one reason that investors have yet to sour on pharmaceuticals in light of the election. A Trump win wouldn’t necessarily mean a less-aggressive push to curb drug prices. Neither would wins by Sanders’ Democratic rivals, many of whom have their own plans to cut drug pricing. Sen. Elizabeth Warren says she would have the government manufacture its own generic drugs. And Joe Biden, the former vice president, has called for drug-price caps.

Despite the sanguine outlook, it’s clear that some in the sector are preparing for a rocky 2020.

Kevin Gillis, chief operating officer of Third Rock Ventures, a biotech venture-capital firm, said the private companies it funds that are looking to raise money or go public this year are planning to do it soon. “I think there’s a general desire for most of those companies probably to try to do those transactions pre-Labor Day, with the belief that the fall could be a little bit choppy,” he said.