Vaccines Are All That Matter for the Market and 5 More Things to Know

Stock futures are surging Tuesday morning and it’s on the only reason the market seems to rally and fall these days: news on a potential vaccine for Covid-19.

Small biotech Novavax (ticker: NVAX) announced it was enrolling patients in a medical trial testing its vaccine candidate which is “a stable, prefusion protein made using its proprietary nanoparticle technology.” We have no idea what that is, but the impact on the stock is plain enough.

Shares are up about 25% in premarket trading, and Novavax’s market capitalization will be more than $3 billion when the stock opens for trading.

Merck (MRK), on the other hand, has been left out of the vaccine party—and it shows. Although the pharmaceutical giant is worth almost $200 billion, its shares are down 16% year to date and trade for less than 13 times estimated 2021 earnings. What’s more the stock has dropped for six straight days.

No longer. Tuesday morning, Merck announced development of a coronavirus vaccine candidate. Merck’s candidate will use “recombinant vesicular stomatitis virus technology.” Merck also said it was developing an oral pill to treat Covid-19 and that it is buying a privately held biotech with more vaccine technology. Its stock is up 2.4% in premarket trading.

It’s all adding up to a big boost for the stock market. Novavax’s gain adds about $650 million to the company’s market value. Merck’s gain adds about $4.6 billion. And a 2% gain for the S&P adds about $500 billion in stock market value.

That’s the power of the word vaccine.

—Al Root

***
Merck Joins Vaccine Race
Big pharma firm Merck unveiled three Covid-19 programs Tuesday morning, joining its peers in the race to develop drugs and vaccines to confront the pandemic. The drugmaker’s experimental programs include two vaccines and one treatment, and all sound promising.

Merck CEO Ken Frazier outlined the three new programsfor Barron’s:
A collaboration with IAVI, a nonprofit scientific research group, to develop a vaccine based on the same platform Merck used for the Ebola vaccine the Food and Drug Administration approved in late 2019. Phase 1 studies are expected to start this year.
A vaccine already under development by Themis Bioscience, a private Austrian biotech that Merck said Tuesday it would acquire for an undisclosed amount. Phase 1 studies are expected to begin within weeks.
An oral antiviral it will develop in collaboration with a private biotech called Ridgeback Biotherapeutics. Phase 1 studies completed.
What’s Next: Frazier told that the company had specific criteria for its vaccine candidates, such as the ability to deliver it in a single dose and a vaccine based on proven technology. That stands in contrast to companies like Pfizer (PFE) and Moderna (MRNA), which are developing Covid-19 vaccines on highly novel technologies

—Josh Nathan-Kazis

***
U.S. Hospitalizations Rising
Nearly 100,000 Americans have died from Covid-19, data collected by Johns Hopkins University shows, and some states saw spikes in coronavirus hospitalizations over the Memorial Day weekend. All 50 states have now loosened their social distancing rules to some extent.

North Carolina reported its highest one-day increase of Covid-19 cases on Saturday. 
Gov. Asa Hutchinson said at a briefing Saturday that Arkansas was experiencing a second wave. 
The rolling 7-day average for hospitalizations across the U.S. excluding the New York tri-state region hit a low on May 15, but it has risen since then, broadly tracking the national relaxation of lockdown orders.
Viral videos showed packed crowds at water parks in Florida and Texas, along with crowded pools and bars at Lake of the Ozarks in Missouri.
Alameda County, Calif., the site of Tesla’s Fremont plant at the center of a reopening battle, saw a rise in cases over the past week, too.
“We expected cases to go up and hospitalizations bump up as we reopened. But we need to understand this isn’t contained and it’s still continuing to spread.” – Dr. Scott Gottlieb, former head of the Food and Drug Administration

What’s Next: As states lift lockdown measures and summer comes into full swing, states will need to adopt measures like low-occupancy in restaurants, widely spaced outdoor seating and mask-wearing indoors in order to keep the number of new cases down. Additionally, officials may begin to allow lower-risk activities outdoors, where UV rays can kill the virus and wind can disperse it.

—Ben Walsh

***
China’s Plan to Amend Hong Kong Law Brings Protesters Back
Riot police broke up protesters in Hong Kong over the weekend with tear gas and water cannons as crowds gathered to rail against China’s plan to effectively outlaw various political activities in the semi-autonomous city.

At least 180 protesters were arrested by Hong Kong police.
Beijing plans to amend the Basic Law governing the mainland’s relationship to Hong Kong to ban sedition, treason and secession, offenses that can be applied extremely broadly in China.
What’s next: The U.S. is ramping up its rhetoric against the expected Chinese crackdown. White House National Security Adviser Robert O’Brien raised the possibility of sanctions against China if the plan moves forward. He also said that the U.S. could change its special treatment of Hong Kong, a move that could threaten the city’s status as a global financial and trade hub.

—Ben Walsh

***
British P.M. Johnson Backs Advisor Who Traveled During Lockdown
Dominic Cummings, a top advisor to U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson, traveled more than 250 miles to be near his parents’ home with his wife and child. Cummings’ wife was reported to have Covid-19 symptoms at the time.

“In every respect, [Cummings] has acted responsibly, legally and with integrity,” Johnson said. “I think what they did was totally understandable. I think any father, any parent would understand what he did.”
The trip came just four days after Johnson told the British public that they “must stay at home” in order to contain the virus.
In an unprecedented move, Cummings held his own press conference Sunday and told reporters he didn’t regret what he did. “I think what I did was reasonable in these circumstances,” he said. “I can understand that some people watching the media will be very upset. I understand the hardship and sacrifice the country has gone through.” 
Douglas Ross, a junior minister, resigned from the government on Tuesday on the handling of the crisis by Johnson, who has refused to sack his aide and said he didn’t break any law.
What’s Next: While he maintains the support of the cabinet, Cummings faces calls from his own Tory party to resign. The opposition Labour Party leader Keir Starmer said: “The Prime Minister has treated the British people with contempt. One rule for Dominic Cummings, another for everybody else.” Beyond political consequences, Cummings may also face a police investigation.

—Ben Walsh and Pierre Briançon

***
Traders Return to NYSE’s Floor   
The New York Stock Exchange trading floor will open for business today. At least, partially.

The exchange’s President Stacey Cunningham wrote in a Wall Street Journal guest column earlier this month that the floor will partially reopen to “a subset” of floor brokers the day after Memorial Day. 
The NYSE flipped to all-electronic trading in mid-March as Covid-19 began upending life in the greater New York region. Cunningham noted the NYSE will apply lessons learned from the partial re-opening of its San Francisco options floor on May 4.
What’s Next: After an action-packed “break” for Memorial Day in which futures surged more than 200 points, traders will be right back in the thick of earnings season. Notable firms reporting results this week include Costco Wholesale (COST),  Salesforce.com (CRM), and Dell Technologies (DELL).

—Connor Smith

