Centene CEO Says Covid-19 Vaccine Profits Should Be Capped for Companies That Took Government Aid

The CEO of Centene, one of America’s five largest health insurers by market value, thinks that the drug companies developing Covid-19 vaccines need to keep their prices low.

“My whole mentality is, when things are tough, that’s not the time to try and capitalize on it,” Centene (ticker: CNC) CEO Michael Neidorff told Barron’s on Tuesday. “I think the drug companies will have to show some restraint.”

Asked about Pfizer’s price of roughly $20 a dose, Neidorff said: “I like it better at $10.”

That is not a surprising position for Neidorff to take, as his company could be paying at least some of the cost for Covid-19 vaccines. But a stream of news from drug companies setting prices for their Covid-19 vaccines is sparking a debate over how much they should charge, one that is threatening to unsettle an industry that has struggled to contain rising drug costs.

Neidorff argued that companies that received government funding to develop their Covid-19 vaccines, a group that does not include Pfizer but does include all other leading programs, should be required to limit their profit margins.

“I think they should be allowed—since the government funded the development—maybe a 20, 25% margin,” Neidorff said.

Little is known about the cost basis of the Covid-19 vaccines under development, but SVB Leerink analyst Geoffrey Porges wrote last week that a pricing level of $15 to $20 a dose suggests a profit margin for vaccine makers of 60% to 80%. On Tuesday, the Financial Times reported that Moderna (MRNA) was seeking to charge between $25 and $30 a dose.

Neidorff spoke to Barron’s shortly after his company reported second- quarter financial results that slightly missed Wall Street expectations. The company saw elective procedures drop early in the course of the pandemic, sharply lowering its costs, but Neidorff now says that Covid-19 expenses are balancing out the drop in utilization.

“We had a good April, because there was so little elective procedures,” Neidorff said. “Now we’re seeing in July, while elective procedures are down a little bit, the Covid costs are offsetting it.”

The company reported adjusted diluted earnings of $2.40 a share, just below the S&P Capital IQ consensus estimate of $2.43 a share. The stock fell 4.6% on Tuesday, but was up 2.5% on Wednesday morning.

In a note out late Tuesday, BMO Capital Markets analyst Matt Borsch called the quarter “solid.”

“CNC remains our top pick given a compelling sector relative valuation,” Borsch wrote.

Centene trades at 11.9 times earnings expected over the next 12 months, according to FactSet, cheaper than UnitedHealth Group (UNH), which trades at 17 times earnings, and Humana (HUM), which trades at 18.8 times earnings. Centene is up 4.5% this year.

Centene reported it insured 24.6 million people as of June 30, a big jump from the 15 million it insured at the same time last year, thanks to the acquisition of WellCare, another large insurer that focused on government-sponsored plans.

Now, roughly half of Centene’s members are in Medicaid plans. During periods of high unemployment, the number of people on Medicaid is generally expected to rise. But Centene executives said on an earnings call Tuesday that the membership increase has been smaller than the company expected.

Neidorff told Barron’s that some workers receiving unemployment may be furloughed and still receiving benefits from their employers, and that young people may be choosing to forgo insurance.

“We’ll pick up more,” the CEO said. “It’s not like we didn’t get anything.”