Moderna’s Vaccine Will Likely Be Approved, Analyst Says. Why the Stock Is ‘Unattractive.’

SVB Leerink analyst Mani Foroohar thinks that Moderna’s experimental Covid-19 vaccine has “high odds” of receiving approval from the Food and Drug Administration. But in a note out Wednesday evening, he initiated coverage of the company with a rating of Market Perform, saying that the stock’s share price already incorporates an optimistic outlook about the vaccine’s longer-term sales.

“Consensus expectations in the medium- and long-term bake in aggressive price and share assumptions, despite numerous competitors entering the market,” Foroohar wrote. “We view the current valuation and expectations as offering unattractive risk/reward to investors.”

Foroohar initiated the stock at Market Perform, setting a price target of $65. Moderna (ticker: MRNA) shares closed Wednesday at $83.23, and were down 1.8% in early trading Thursday. The stock price has climbed 325% so far this year, and 492% over the past 12 months.
Moderna has a market capitalization of $32.2 billion, and is by far the largest biopharmaceutical company by market capitalization with no approved products. Yet Foroohar’s take is, for the time, a contrarian one:

Of the 15 analysts who cover Moderna tracked by FactSet, he is one of only three with Hold or Market Perform ratings. The other 12 rate the stock Buy or Overweight.

Another analyst with a cautious take, J.P. Morgan’s Cory Kasimov, downgraded the stock to Neutral from Overweight on Monday, citing similar reasons to Foroohar.

In his note, Foroohar compared the situation to when companies like Gilead (GILD) introduced a new generation of hepatitis C drugs in 2014 and 2015. They enjoyed enormous sales for a year before effectively exhausting the market.

“Investors in the [hepatitis C] market recall the risk to pricing from serial new entrants in viral disease markets with prominent government payors,” Foroohar wrote. “With many companies entering the market in a short time, and the early price point implied by [ Pfizer and BioNTech’s] supply agreement with the US government, commoditization despite excellent data is a very real risk – a scenario that implies a PT of $19/share.”

Yet Foroohar wrote that the stock wasn’t a promising target for short sellers, either, given his estimation that the Covid-19 vaccine will likely receive FDA approval.

“We are optimistic MRNA will play a role in combating a pandemic that disproportionately impacts society’s most vulnerable,” he wrote. “We struggle to reach MRNA’s current valuation, despite ascribing value to a dozen programs, many quite early.”

