AstraZeneca Stock Jumps on Report of Positive Data on Covid-19 Vaccine Trial

Shares of U.K.-based drugmaker AstraZeneca were climbing 5.5% Wednesday morning on an anonymously sourced report from a prominent British journalist claiming the medical journal the Lancet will publish “positive news soon” on the Covid-19 vaccine the company is developing with Oxford University.

AstraZeneca (ticker: AZN) declined to comment on the report through an external spokesman.

The brief article, which appeared early Wednesday on the website of the British television network ITV, was by Robert Peston, ITV News’ political editor. Peston writes that the Lancet will publish positive news on the Oxford vaccine, and that the paper will show that the vaccine elicited both antibody and T-cell responses in study participants.

The article has few details, and the source isn’t identified or described. Still, investors appear to be taking the bait. AstraZeneca’s American depositary receipts, which closed Tuesday at $53.98, were trading at $56.92 by midmorning Wednesday.

If the data are indeed positive, it would put AstraZeneca in league with Moderna (MRNA) and the joint program from Pfizer (PFE) and BioNTech (BNTX), both of which have published promising Phase 1 data on Covid-19 vaccines in recent weeks.

Yet the run-up comes entirely on word of ITV’s Peston, who doesn’t claim to have seen the Lancet paper or any data from the trial. Investors’ exuberance over early Covid-19 vaccine trial data has bitten them before: Moderna shares tumbled in mid-May, a day after climbing dramatically on the company’s claims of positive results in its Phase 1 vaccine trial, after a skeptical story on the health-care news website Stat noted that they had provided little data in their initial press release.

Two months later, the paper published Tuesday in the New England Journal of Medicine bears out the claims in that initial press release, but that didn’t stop the stock from falling hard in May.

AstraZeneca’s ADRs are up 14.1% so far this year. The stock trades at 23.5 times earnings expected over the next 12 months, well above its five-year average of 18.8 times earnings, according to FactSet. Of the 24 analysts who follow the stock tracked by FactSet, 16 rate it a Buy, while three rate it a Sell.