The Dow Just Dropped 78 Points. Here Are 3 Reasons to Be Optimistic About the Market.

New month, same shtick from the stock market.

What do I mean? Today was the first day of July, and also the first day of the new quarter. But looking at how the major stock averages performed Wednesday, the new quarter might be just like the old one.

The Nasdaq Composite rose 1%—and hit an all-time high in the process. The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 77.91 points, or 0.3%. The S&P 500, a better reflection of the overall market, rose 0.5%. That was pretty much the order of performance during the past three months, as the Nasdaq gained 31%, the S&P 500 rose 20%, the Dow Jones Industrial finished up just 18%. All this despite continued headlines about coronavirus spreading across the U.S. “The holiday-shortened week has been as bullish as it gets, so far, with three positive sessions in a row in the face of the scary COVID-related headlines,” writes Gorilla Trades strategist Ken Berman.

The day didn’t start off that way. Following good news about a Pfizer (PFE) vaccine and a better-than-expected manufacturing survey got the Dow off to a fast start, while the Nasdaq looked like it would be the laggard, But as the day progressed, investors pivoted to tech giants like Netflix (NFLX), which gained 6.7%, Facebook (FB), which rose 4.6% after days of getting hammered by ad boycotts, and Amazon.com (AMZN), which finished up 4.4%.

Every time we see “tech” outperform, we get a little worried because that’s what investors do when they get worried. But BofA strategist Hans Mikkelsen has three reasons to be bullish: Increased U.S. Covid testing, which he says should reduce the odds of a severe second wave; economic surprise indexes continue to show that economists are underestimating the strength of the rebound; and better-than-expected corporate earnings. “Clearly investors expect to see horrific numbers overall...but why would the better than expected economic outcome not also flow through to at least better than feared corporate earnings,” Mikkelsen asks rhetorically.

Why not, indeed.

