Novavax Reported Promising Data on Covid-19 Vaccine. Its Stock Fell Anyway.

The biotech company Novavax said Tuesday afternoon that a Phase 1/2 clinical trial of its experimental Covid-19 vaccine had produced promising data. It said that the vaccine had a “reassuring safety profile” and that all patients who received the vaccine developed neutralizing antibody responses after two doses.

Yet shares of Novavax (ticker: NVAX) briefly plunged after the market closed, plummeting 27% from their closing price of $157.17. The share price has climbed nearly 4,000% so far this year on excitement over the company’s Covid-19 vaccine.

It wasn’t immediately clear why the apparently positive press release sent Novavax shares tumbling. Novavax has received commitments of up to $1.6 billion in funding from the federal government to test and manufacture the vaccine.

By 5:15 p.m. the stock had recovered somewhat from its steep drop, and was down 3.8% in after-hours trading.

The company said that a paper on the study had been submitted to medRxiv, a so-called preprint server for studies not yet peer-reviewed, though it didn’t seem to have been posted by Tuesday afternoon.

But an article in The Wall Street Journal said the paper reports that levels of neutralizing antibodies in patients who received the vaccine were similar to the levels found in hospitalized Covid-19 patients, and higher than the levels found in nonhospitalized Covid-19 patients.

According to a report in Stat, eight patients in the 130-person trial experienced severe side effects, though all resolved within days.

One early source of disappointment among investors may have been a quickly-corrected erroneous line in Stat’s report that said that eight trial subjects had been hospitalized due to side effects. The story was soon corrected, and the stock began to recover shortly after the correction was made.

Novavax’s technology is similar to the approach taken by Sanofi (SNY) and GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) in their Covid-19 vaccine, and is generally more proven than the messenger RNA vaccines under development by Moderna (MRNA) and Pfizer (PFE).