Moderna Is Racing Toward a Covid-19 Vaccine, but the Field Is Getting Crowded

It was good news when Moderna’s chief executive told a television interviewer on Monday that the effectiveness of its Covid-19 vaccine might be known by Thanksgiving. But the biotech company’s stock was off 5% in Tuesday morning trading, to $63.

Perhaps investors noticed news of big boosts at rival vaccine projects that are also using the messenger RNA technology employed by Moderna (ticker: MRNA). The cutting-edge approach rocketed Moderna’s vaccine development from the drawing board to the clinic in just two months’ time, but other groups are working with the same science. Competing RNA vaccine projects got major backing this week in Germany, Britain, and Singapore.

Moderna was the first of the RNA vaccines to start human trials, and a 30,000 person final study will begin in July. CEO Stéphane Bancel told Bloomberg Television on Monday that sufficient data on the vaccine’s efficacy might be available by Thanksgiving. If the data look good, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration might quickly grant approval for emergency use in people at high risk of Covid infection, while the agency continues to ponder approval for broader use.

That is certainly good news, as the world worries about a renewed spread of the coronavirus after states and nations reopen from their lockdowns. But new commitments for other RNA vaccine projects will increase the technology’s chance of success and the availability of global supply. The competition may reduce the opportunity for Moderna and its investors, but everyone else will surely benefit.

Backed by more than $50 million worth of U.K. government funds, a project led by Imperial College London professor Robin Shattock started human trials this week of its vaccine, which injects RNA genetic instructions into muscle cells to get them to produce a coronavirus protein and trigger immune antibodies. The Imperial College project will eschew royalties and profits, distributing any resulting vaccine at a modest cost.

On Monday, Germany announced an investment worth more than $300 million in CureVac, another RNA vaccine developer that stirred some controversy in March, when Germany reportedly quashed an attempt by the Trump administration to buy into the firm. Another RNA vaccine project is already in clinical trials in Germany, using a vaccine being developed by BioNTech (BNTX) and Pfizer (PFE).

Lexington, Mass.-based Translate Bio (TBIO), meanwhile, has an RNA vaccine project for Covid with its big partner Sanofi (SNY). In April, Sanofi said that the companies hoped to start clinical trials later this year. If the vaccine proves out, Sanofi says it could produce 360 million doses in the first half of 2021.

San Diego-based Arcturus Therapeutics Holdings (ARCT) has been a dark horse in the RNA vaccine race. This week, scientists at Singapore’s Duke-NUS Medical School said that they’ll start clinical trials of the company’s Covid vaccine in the city-state in August.

If the vaccine succeeds, Arcturus has a deal with Catalent (CTLT) for production. Hopes for the vaccine and other products have moved H.C. Wainright analyst Ed Arce to rate Arcturus a Buy. Recently trading at $37, the stock could hit $62, he thinks.

In lab data and Phase 1 human studies, the RNA vaccines have been able to stir up a promising antibody response. If that promise pays off in Phase 3 trials, it looks like there will be plenty of RNA vaccines to go around.