Johnson & Johnson Signs $1 Billion U.S. Government Deal for Vaccine. Its Stock Is Rising.

Johnson & Johnson has joined the growing list of companies with billion-dollar agreements to sell Covid-19 vaccines to the U.S. government.

The company said Wednesday morning it has a deal valued at “over $1 billion” to supply 100 million doses of its experimental Covid-19 vaccine to the U.S., if the product receives approval or emergency-use authorization from the Food and Drug Administration.

The news comes days after the European drugmakers Sanofi (ticker: SNY) and GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) announced their own $2.1 billion agreement to supply 100 million doses of their Covid-19 vaccine to the U.S. government, and two weeks after Pfizer (PFE) and BioNTech (BNTX) announced a similar $1.95 billion deal.

Shares of Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) were up 0.7% in early Wednesday trading.

As more companies make deals to sell the government their still-experimental vaccines, pricing is threatening to become a fraught political issue. The Pfizer deal prices each dose of that vaccine at $19.50, while the Sanofi and Glaxo deal appeared to price each dose at less than $10.50, since less than half of the government payment was earmarked for development of the vaccine, rather than manufacturing and delivery.

Johnson & Johnson, unlike the other companies, didn’t say exactly how much money it would receive from the U.S. government under the terms of the deal, but it appears to have priced the vaccine at somewhere over $10 per dose.

The Johnson & Johnson vaccine comes with one key difference. Last week, the company said that it was testing its vaccine in a one-dose regimen, rather than the two doses that the other leading vaccines would require. If the vaccine proves effective after a single dose, the price would be somewhere over $10 for the entire treatment course, compared with the Pfizer vaccine, which would cost $39 for a treatment course.

The Financial Times reported last week that Moderna was seeking to sell its vaccine for between $25 and $30 per dose, or $50 to $60 per treatment course.

Johnson & Johnson has said that it plans to sell its vaccine on a not-for-profit basis during the course of the pandemic. GlaxoSmithKline has also said it doesn’t intend to seek a profit. Pfizer, meanwhile, has not taken government funding to develop its vaccine, but does intend to seek a profit.

“We greatly appreciate the U.S. government’s confidence in, and support for, our R&D platform and efforts and the scalability of our vaccine technology,” Johnson & Johnson chief scientific officer Paul Stoffels said in a statement. “We are scaling up production in the U.S. and worldwide to deliver a SARS-CoV-2 vaccine for emergency use.”

The Johnson & Johnson vaccine is undergoing its first trial in humans. It began in late July.

