BioMarin Stock’s Near-Term Growth Is Gone, Analyst Says. Here’s Why.

BioMarin Pharmaceutical had a head start in the race for a hemophilia cure. But after U.S. regulators rebuffed its request to approve its gene therapy for the bleeding disorder, BioMarin’s rivals may catch up, says Citigroup in a Thursday morning report. Analyst Mohit Bansal is downgrading the stock from Buy to Neutral.

Bansal admits that the rebuff from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration took him by surprise. “This decision appears extreme,” he says in the report.

BioMarin (ticker: BMRN) claimed surprise, too, when it announced the FDA decision Wednesday. It said that inconsistent responses among patients in the clinical trials of its Valrox gene therapy had worried the agency about the treatment’s durability. So the FDA is demanding two years of follow-up data on the patients in the continuing Phase 3 trial. Even if Valrox proves out, says Bansal, its launch will now be delayed to late 2022 or early 2023.

The Citi analyst also dropped his price target on BioMarin stock from $148 to $86. Wednesday’s bad news knocked the stock 35% to $76.71, leaving 12% upside to Bansal’s new target.

“The delay in Valrox approval removes the near term growth driver for the company and creates uncertainty,” wrote Bansal. “It also gives room for competition to catch-up which could potentially result in weaker competitive positioning for Valrox.”

Competing treatments to fix hemophilia’s genetic defect are in early clinical trials by Roche Holding (RHHBY) and by a team of Pfizer (PFE) and Sangamo Therapeutics (SGMO).

BioMarin has products approved for treating certain serious enzyme deficiencies and the Citigroup analyst figures this existing business is worth about $55 a share. A treatment it’s developing for children of disproportionate short stature could be worth another $14 to the stock, he says. Valrox is worth $17.

But with the launch of Valrox delayed, and less certain, says Bansal, “We think the immediate need to own this stock isn’t there.”

