Pfizer Stock Jumps on Earnings Beat and Vaccine Progress

The big pharma firm Pfizer announced second-quarter financial results Tuesday morning that beat Wall Street expectations, sending shares up around 3% in premarket trading.

The company reported earnings of $0.78 per share, beating the FactSet consensus by $0.10 and the S&P Capital IQ Consensus by $0.12.

Pfizer (ticker: PFE) reported sales of $11.8 billion in the quarter, a 9% operational decline from the same quarter last year. But while sales from the company’s Upjohn division, which it is spinning off later this year, were down 31% operationally, the biopharma division, which will effectively be the company after the spinoff, were up 6%.

The company slightly raised its financial guidance for the full 2020 fiscal year, saying it now expects revenues of between $48.6 billion and $50.6 billion, up from previous guidance of between $48.5 billion and $50.5 billion.

The update comes as Pfizer emerges as among the leaders in the race to develop the first Covid-19 vaccine. On Monday night, the company announced that its program had hit a new milestone, saying it had begun a Phase 2/3 study of its experimental vaccine. The study began in the U.S., and will include 30,000 participants around the world. The vaccine will be administered in a two-dose regimen. The announcement came hours after Moderna (MRNA) announced it had begun a 30,000-participant Phase 3 study of its own Covid-19 vaccine.

Mizuho analyst Vamil Divan wrote Tuesday that he expected shares of Pfizer to rise on the earnings news. “We expect Pfizer shares to continue their recent strength following 2Q 2020 results that beat expectations,” he said.

Shares of Pfizer are down 4.2% this year, though the stock has climbed 16.3% in July amid excitement over the company’s vaccine program. Shares trade at 14.4 times earnings expected over the next 12 months, just above their 5-year average of 13.4 times earnings. The S&P 500 is up 0.3% year to date.

In a statement, the company’s CEO, Dr. Albert Bourla, said Pfizer now plans to close the company-transforming transaction in which Mylan (MYL) will merge with Pfizer subsidiary Upjohn in the fourth quarter of this year.

“The Biopharma business grew 9% operationally in the first six months of the year, driven by strong performances from many key brands,” Bourla said. “Upjohn faced the expected headwind of generic competition for Lyrica in the U.S. that was partially offset by strong performance in China in second-quarter 2020.”

The company said that the increased revenues for its biopharma business were driven in part by sales of vyndaqel and vyndamax, which treat transthyretin amyloid cardiomyopathy and launched last year, and by sales of eliquis, an anticoagulant, which were up 19%. Sales of the cancer drug ibrance were up 11%, and sales of the vaccine prevnar 13 outside of the U.S. were up 18%.

A conference call for investors is scheduled for 10 a.m.

