The World Needs a Covid Vaccine. Will There Be Enough for Everyone?

It’s important to get to the front of the queue—especially when it comes to a Covid-19 vaccine.

The United Kingdom announced a deal Monday with Pfizer and its vaccine partner BioNTech for 30 million doses of a Covid-19 vaccine that’s still under development.

Delivery to the U.K., or any other buyer, of course, is subject to the vaccine receiving regulatory approval. Pfizer’s vaccine is slated to begin final testing trials later this month. Other vaccines are in development around the world.

The U.K. clearly needs a vaccine. The U.K. has about 300,000 confirmed cases. That’s, very roughly, one for every 300 people. The U.S., however, needs a vaccine, too. It has about 3.8 million confirmed cases or about one for every 90 people. The number of new cases in both countries is accelerating.

Will there be enough to go around? Pfizer says it will be able to make 100 million doses by the end of 2020 and 1.3 billion doses by the end of 2021. There are about 7.8 billion people on Earth.

Here’s to hoping the vaccine works—and here’s hoping that everyone who needs one can get one.

—Al Root

***
Congress Resumes as Coronavirus Relief Negotiations Heat up
Congress is back in session this week and it has a huge task ahead: negotiating the fourth package of coronavirus relief measures. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R., Ky.) is set to release the Republican proposal more than two months after Democrats in the House passed a $3 trillion bill.

The big question is how much to spend. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said last week that the $1.3 trillion Republicans want is “not enough,” arguing that a trillion dollars alone is needed for state and local aid plus another trillion to extend unemployment benefits and direct payments to taxpayers.
Perhaps the highest profile debate is over continuing the $600 a week in expanded unemployment benefits, which are set to expire on July 31. Democrats want to extend it, while many Republicans want to cut or eliminate it.
President Donald Trump has repeatedly demanded a payroll tax cut, the Washington Post reported, adding that the president won’t sign the bill unless that’s included.
What’s Next: Washington is feeling the heat to reach an agreement quickly to keep the hardest-hit Americans—and the economy as a whole—afloat, but narrowing the $2 trillion gap between the Democratic and Republican proposals is no easy task.

—Ben Walsh

***
Portland Mayor Criticizes Federal Response to Protests
After a viral video late last week showed federal officers in camouflage taking a Portland protester into an unmarked vehicle amid the continuing protests against racial injustice and police brutality there, Mayor Ted Wheeler is asking federal troops to leave the city.

“Their presence here is actually leading to more violence and more vandalism,” Wheeler told CNN on Sunday. “They’re not wanted here. We haven’t asked them here. In fact, we want them to leave.”
Wheeler’s comments came after Trump tweeted Sunday morning that, “We are trying to help Portland, not hurt it. Their leadership has, for months, lost control of the anarchists and agitators.”
Oregon’s attorney general has filed a lawsuit against the federal government, and the U.S. Attorney for the District of Oregon has requested an investigation by the Department of Homeland Security Office of the Inspector General into the arrests.
The Portland protests have lasted for 50 nights, often converging on the Federal Courthouse, where officers have used tear gas to disperse crowds.
What’s Next: While Trump shows no signs of calling off the federal agents, some national lawmakers are showing support for state and local leaders. On Sunday, the Democratic chairs of three House Committees sent a letter to the Inspectors General for the Justice Department and Department of Homeland Security asking them to investigate.

—Anita Hamilton

***
The Week Ahead in Earnings
Second-quarter earnings season will hit full stride this week, with almost 78 S&P 500 companies on tap to report results. Investors will be paying particularly close attention to results from tech stocks like Tesla, Intel and Microsoft, along with a report from soft drink giant Coca-Cola, and several big airlines.

In the tech sector, Intel and Microsoft’s earnings numbers will be a test case in how well they have been able to capitalize on the shift to remote work that has swept the globe. Microsoft reports Wednesday and Intel reports Thursday.
Tesla reports Wednesday after blowing past expectations for second-quarter car deliveries earlier in July.
Coca-Cola is one company that has not been hit by the shutdown of vast swaths of American life. The company’s stock is down 16% so far this year, and analysts expect Coke to earn 40 cents a share in the second quarter, down from 51 cents a share last year.
United Airlines reports Tuesday, followed by American Airlines and Southwest Airlines on Thursday. Things look bleak for air travel after Delta’s poor results last week and dark forecast for a recovery in air travel.
What’s Next: In the initial months of the pandemic, investors have tended to judge executives on their ability to change course rapidly. Now earnings reports are giving investors a clearer idea of who can operate profitably under these conditions.

—Ben Walsh

***
Trump Calls Dr. Fauci “Alarmist”
President Trump continued an apparent rift with the country’s top infectious disease expert Sunday, saying in a Fox News interview that Dr. Anthony Fauci is “a little bit of an alarmist” and that “Dr. Fauci’s made some mistakes.” Trump added, “I spoke to him yesterday at length. I have a very good relationship with Dr. Fauci.”

The president said he was not trying to discredit Fauci, even after the White House sent reporters a list of statements he made in the first months of the pandemic that they said were inaccurate and White House trade advisor Peter Navarro wrote an op-ed in USA Today criticizing Fauci.
Testing has been a key bone of contention. In April, Fauci’s assertion that the U.S. needed to “significantly ramp up” testing capacity drew a rebuke from President Trump. “I don’t agree with him on that, no, I think we’re doing a great job on testing,” Trump said then.
The Trump administration continues to clash with Congress over testing as well. After Senate Republicans included $75 billion on coronavirus testing in a draft of their relief package, the White House pushed to cut almost all of those funds from the proposal, the Washington Post and New York Times reported.
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration moved Saturday to increase American labs’ capacities to process Covid-19 tests. For the first time, the regulator will allow so-called pooled tests, where a batch of up to four patients’ samples are tested together.
What’s Next: Trump and Fauci continue to espouse very different views of the pandemic, with Dr. Fauci warning that daily new cases could top 100,000 while Trump predicting on Fox Sunday that the virus will “disappear and I’ll be right.” He added, “I’ve been right probably more than anybody else.”

—Ben Walsh

***
EU Talks Go Into Overtime
European Union leaders have extended a planned two-day summit into a fourth day, as they have yet to reach agreement on a budget and the special “recovery fund” meant to bolster economies reeling from the coronavirus.

The recovery fund is what has caught the market’s interest. The European Union has proposed a 750 billion euro ($860 billion) fund, consisting of loans and grants to the countries hardest hit by the virus. For the first time, the EU would borrow the money and then distribute it.
The so-called frugal countries led by the Netherlands want to ensure the risk sharing is limited. They have influence because the agreement has to be unanimous.
That said, the idea of risk sharing is now largely agreed. What’s being negotiated is the size of the grants as well as the notion that fund disbursement be linked to reforms in recipient countries.
What’s Next: EU leaders will resume talks in Brussels on Monday afternoon. The market is betting that the theatrics are for the leaders’ domestic audiences and that an agreement will be forged. Should the EU reach a deal, it would be landmark, not just for the joint borrowing but also for the weight the spending would devote to creating a low-carbon economy.

—Steve Goldstein

***
