Analysts Are Starting to Pick Their Covid-19 Vaccine Winners, but There’s Still a Long Way to Go


A stampede of new data on experimental Covid-19 vaccines arrived Monday, with programs from AstraZeneca, Pfizer, and the Chinese firm CanSino all publishing papers on early studies. As the dust clears a day later, analysts note that the data, while promising, remain very preliminary. And though comparisons remain challenging, at least one analyst wrote that the Pfizer vaccine looked a bit more promising than the vaccine from AstraZeneca.

In notes out Monday evening and Tuesday, analysts emphasized that the vaccines all still have a lot to prove.
“Only ongoing randomised trials will show if the magnitude of immune response [the AstraZeneca vaccine induced], however it is measured, will suffice to offer (long term) protection,” UBS analyst Michael Leuchten wrote in a note out Tuesday.

Jefferies trading desk analyst Jared Holz suggested in an email to investors Tuesday morning that some of the exuberance over the Monday data in the news wasn’t shared by savvier health-care investors. “The general public appears twice as euphoric as those focused solely on the sector, maybe more so,” Holz wrote. “That said, our view remains consistent in that at least one vaccine will be approved prior to the election.”

The main event of the day on Monday was the release of data from the Phase 1/2 trial of the Covid-19 vaccine developed by Oxford University in collaboration with AstraZeneca (ticker: AZN). Investors had loaded up on AstraZeneca shares in advance of the announcement, sending the stock up 7.5% last Wednesday, and 6.4% last Friday. On Monday, following the release of the data in a paper published in The Lancet, the stock fell 4%, closing at $58.68.

The data showed that the AstraZeneca vaccine induced two types of immune responses in patients, both neutralizing antibodies and T-cell activity. The small group of patients who received two doses of the vaccine all developed neutralizing antibodies. But the levels of neutralizing antibodies reported were lower than some other of the Covid-19 vaccines have reported in their early studies.

“The phase I data in The Lancet shows no more and no less than we have seen with other agents and key clinical hurdles are still to overcome in pII/III,” Leuchten wrote.

Also on Monday, Pfizer (PFE) and BioNTech (BNTX) released data on a second Phase 1/2 trial of their Covid-19 vaccine that seemed to confirm the findings of a trial released earlier this month. The new data showed clear T-cell response in patients who received the vaccine. “While the debate about how much T-cell immunity contributes to the COVID disease protection is still ongoing, we are encouraged by the data,” wrote SVB Leerink analyst Geoffrey Porges. “The T-cell response data are likely to be viewed as stronger than Moderna’s publication.”

Shares of Pfizer climbed 0.7% on Monday, and were up 1.1% on Tuesday morning. Shares of BioNTech rose 3.5% Monday, and 2% Tuesday morning.

The data from CanSino Biologics, also published Monday in The Lancet, was also encouraging, though analysts said they had limitations.

Picking a winner, or a leading candidate, among the vaccines is challenging at this phase, given the small size of the studies completed so far and the preliminary nature of the data. But Raymond James analyst Steven Seedhouse took a crack at it in a Monday evening note. He ranked the Pfizer vaccine in first, followed by Moderna’s (MRNA) vaccine, followed by AstraZeneca’s, and then CanSino’s.