Tech, Tesla, and Apple Star as Stocks Keep Rising

The stock market continued to climb a steep wall of worry, as the S&P 500 index reached a new high on Friday and the technology-heavy Nasdaq index added to impressive year-to-date gains.

The S&P 500 is now up 5.2% for the year, to 3,397, after a 52% gain from its March low. It added 0.7% in the past week.

Powered by Apple (ticker: AAPL) and Tesla (TSLA), which both notched new highs, the Nasdaq set another record, gaining 2.6%, to 11,311. It has now risen 26.1% in 2020. Apple, which recently topped $2 trillion in market value, advanced 8% last week, ahead of its 4-for-1 stock split later this month.

The split will sharply diminish the weighting of Apple in the Dow Jones Industrial Average, where the iPhone maker has been the most important component, thanks to the Dow’s old-style price weighting. The highest-priced stocks have the most impact.

The Dow was virtually unchanged last week at 27,930 and is off 2% this year, despite Apple. The venerable average has been hurt by still-heavy weightings in lagging financial, energy, and industrial companies.

Much is made of the seeming disconnect between the stock market and the economy, as well as the high valuation of equities. The S&P 500 now trades for a steep 26 times projected 2020 earnings, 21 times estimated 2021 profits, and 18 times projected 2022 earnings.

Leuthold Group chief investment strategist Jim Paulsen doesn’t think investors have lost their minds. Yes, a price/earnings ratio of 26 times is high, “but the market valuation was the same 26 times at beginning of the start of each of the past bull markets,” he says, pointing to the early 1990s, early 2000s, and 2009.

U.S. corporations, he says, were forced to get lean quickly after the pandemic struck in March. “Companies have maximized efficiencies and brought down break-evens; there is incredible profit leverage, and we could blow the roof off earnings” if the economy roars ahead, he says.

Tesla’s stock blew through the roof this past week, gaining 24%, or $399, to a new closing high of $2,049.98 and valuing the electric vehicle leader at $382 billion. Investors have piled in ahead of Tesla’s 5-for-1 stock split, which will take effect on Aug. 31—the same day as Apple’s split.

Few on Wall Street have nailed the move—the stock started the year at $418—as well as Gary Black, a former CEO of Janus Capital Group. Black doesn’t currently work for a Wall Street firm, but he uses his Twitter platform of more than 8,000 followers to make the case for Tesla.

Black correctly forecast the stock split and thinks Tesla will afterward be added to the S&P 500. Tesla, he says, needs to be viewed as a Amazon.com -like growth stock with a huge market opportunity, rather than as a low-multiple auto maker.

On Thursday, he lifted his price target to $2,700, from $2,350, arguing that Tesla could earn $80 a share in 2025, up from about $31 in 2022. He sees its sales rising to 3.2 million vehicles in 2025 from about 500,000 this year.

Here’s what he tweeted Friday: “I am amazed that normally smart people argue that TSLA sells at an absurd P/E multiple (65x 2022 EPS) when other megacap growth stocks Amazon.com (53x), Lululemon Athletica (58x), ServiceNow (63x) Salesforce.com (58x) are all at a similar 2022 P/E with far less growth potential. TSLA’s EV runway is unique.”

With interest rates depressed and likely to remain so for years, stocks with ample and secure dividends could benefit as investors search for yield.

One approach is to consider companies whose dividend yields nicely exceed their bond yields. This can be a good way to find high-quality stocks because low bond yields are often a sign of financial strength and dividend stability.

David King, co-manager of the Columbia Flexible Capital Income fund, looks for such yield gaps as part of his investment strategy.

“The stock of any company whose safe dividend yield is materially higher than its own 10-year bond yield may have a compelling risk/reward profile,” King says. The approach, he says, doesn’t predict that a stock will outperform, but it has been very effective, “at identifying stocks with limited risk.”

He points to Johnson & Johnson (JNJ), whose dividend yield of 2.7% is more than double the about 1% on its 10-year debt. He says the wide gap indicates that investors are pessimistic about future dividend increases at J&J, despite a payout boost of 6% this year and bumps up at an annualized rate of 6% over the past five years.

Other examples are Merck (MRK), Pfizer (PFE), and Edison International (EIX), which yield about 3%, 4%, and 5% respectively.

Yield to Stocks
Here are some companies whose dividend yields comfortably exceed their bond yields.

Warren Buffett turns 90 on Aug. 30, continuing his amazing run of 55 years at the helm of Berkshire Hathaway. It’s his baby, and he will lead it for as long as he can.

Yet whatever Buffett premium that existed for the stock is gone, as investors anticipate the end of his reign.

Berkshire’s class A shares (BRK. A), at around $311,000, look appealing, valued at under 1.2 times estimated Sept. 30 book value of about $267,000. That’s up from a recent low of 1.1 times, but below an average of about 1.4 book value in recent years. The class B shares (BRK. B) trade at about $207.

The book value estimate comes from Edward Jones analyst James Shanahan, who has a Buy rating on the shares. “The stock is cheap here,” he says. “Some of the businesses that are struggling are poised to start performing better later this year and in 2021.”

The stock is popular with Edward Jones clients and financial advisors, Shanahan adds. “It gives clients broad exposure to the U.S. economy—like a diversified mutual fund—at a low cost to own.”

The shares remain behind the overall market this year, after trailing it by about 20 percentage points in 2019.

Lately, however, investors have been encouraged about Berkshire’s stock buyback activity. It repurchased $5.1 billion in the second quarter—more than in all of 2019. And buybacks remained strong in July, at an estimated $2 billion-plus, based on Berkshire’s 10-Q filing.

Apple’s surging stock is another plus. Berkshire’s stake is now worth about $120 billion, or nearly 25% of Berkshire’s market value.

Investors are also starting to anticipate the post-Buffett era, and it could be a good period for shareholders. The company probably would initiate a dividend, a move that Buffett has long resisted—our guess is around 2%—and would likely continue to buy back stock.

There could also be moves to improve operating efficiencies at the sprawling conglomerate, whose main divisions include the Burlington Northern Santa Fe railroad, auto insurer Geico, and a large utility business—or there could be a push to break up the company.

Buffett said at the virtual annual meeting in May that a breakup was unlikely. With holdings by the Buffett family and friends, there will be enough stock to keep Berkshire intact, even as, per his wishes, his stock is given away to charities in the years after his death. “You can count on Berkshire’s present posture being continued for a long time,” Buffett said in May.

Investor David Rolfe of Wedgewood Partners, who made a well-timed sale of Berkshire stock last year, isn’t so sure.

“I just don’t think the ‘Berkshire conglomerate’ culture and structure will survive long after Buffett; the pressure from activist investors will be too intense,” Rolfe says.

Activists could argue that Berkshire trades at a meaningful discount to its sum-of-the-parts value and that it is too big to be effectively managed without someone like Buffett in charge. That could usher in a stormy period for Berkshire, after more than a half-century of calm under Buffett’s leadership.

Bill Ackman is enjoying a turnaround that has put him back in the spotlight.

The investor raised $4 billion in July for Pershing Square Tontine Holdings (PSTH.U), making it the largest special purpose acquisition company, or SPAC. The units have risen to $21.50 from their initial public offering price of $20, as investors anticipate that Ackman will find an attractive company to merge into the SPAC.

But they might also want to consider his other major investment vehicle: Pershing Square Holdings (PSH.Netherlands), an overseas closed-end fund available to U.S. investors. It is up 33% this year, to $25.40 on Euronext, and its net asset value has risen 41%, one of the better showings among large investment managers. That follows an outsize 58% advance last year.

The fund, whose market value totals $5 billion, is an appealing way to invest alongside Ackman in a concentrated portfolio. Its shares recently changed hands at a 33% discount to its NAV, which stood at almost $38 a share last week. Most U.S. closed-end funds trade at closer to a 10% discount.

Ackman’s strong showing this year reflects a well-timed bearish bet on corporate bonds in early 2020. During the March market meltdown, that investment yielded a profit of more than $2 billion, offsetting declines in the value of the fund’s equities.

“The fund offers a great opportunity to get a superior manager at a huge discount,” says Bryn Torkelson, chief investment officer at Matisse Capital, which runs the Matisse Discounted Closed-End Fund Strategy, a mutual fund whose largest position is in Pershing Square Holdings.

Pershing Square’s investments are dominated by seven stocks: Lowe’s (LOW), Restaurant Brands International (QSR), Chipotle Mexican Grill (CMG), Agilent Technologies (A), Hilton Worldwide Holdings (HLT), Starbucks (SBUX), and Howard Hughes (HHC). It also holds warrants on the Ackman SPAC.

Long a prominent activist investor, Ackman had a poor stretch from 2015 to 2017, when Pershing Square’s NAV fell over 30% and trailed the S&P 500 by more than 60 percentage points.

“We believe Ackman has learned his lessons,” Torkelson says.

Ackman, he notes, is now focused on buying good businesses, rather than battling management at underperforming companies.

One drawback is that the Ackman fund is classified as a Passive Foreign Investment Co. (PFIC), which requires U.S. holders to file a form 8621. This can cause some tax headaches for investors.

Still, New York tax expert Robert Willens, says, “While these vehicles are not ideal from a tax and compliance point of view, if you get a great manager, like Mr. Ackman, the benefits of investing in a PFIC can more than outweigh the detriments.”