Moderna Is Asking $60 for Covid-19 Vaccine, According to Report, Drawing Criticism From Capitol Hill

The biotech company Moderna, which has received commitments of nearly $1 billion from the federal government to develop its Covid-19 vaccine, is seeking to sell the vaccine for between $25 and $30 a dose, the Financial Times reported late Tuesday.

Moderna’s (ticker: MRNA) vaccine would be delivered as a two-dose course, meaning that immunization would cost governments between $50 and $60 a person.

That price is well above the other known prices set by companies developing Covid-19 vaccines so far. Pfizer (PFE), which unlike Moderna took no government money to develop its vaccine, is charging developed countries roughly $20 a dose, or $40 per treatment course. And the Financial Times says that one analyst puts the amount AstraZeneca (AZN) charged a consortium of European nations for its Covid-19 vaccine at $3 and $4 per dose.

The price of the Covid-19 vaccines under development is threatening to become a larger issue for the industry, which has struggled for years against efforts by both Democrats and Republicans in Washington to limit the cost of prescription medications.

In a statement to Barron’s on Tuesday night, Rep. Jan Schakowsky, an Illinois Democrat, charged that Moderna, which began the Phase 3 clinical trial of its vaccine on Monday, “is already contemplating how to turn [its] federal funding into sky-high profits.”

In a House subcommittee hearing last week, Schakowsky asked Moderna and other drugmakers if they would sell those vaccines at cost. Moderna’s representative, President Dr. Stephen Hoge, said the company would seek a profit.

“Making a profit does not have to mean price gouging,” Schakowsky said Tuesday night. “If these reports are true, it will represent yet another example of why we must require reasonable pricing of Covid-19 vaccines and treatments that have been developed by taxpayers”

In a statement on Tuesday night, Moderna declined to comment on the Financial Times report. “We are having discussions with a number of governments and governmental entities about potential supply of mRNA-1273,” the company said in a statement. “These discussions are private and as such we cannot comment, given the confidential nature of the discussions and contracts.”

Moderna received two separate cash commitments from the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority, part of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, to support development of its Covid-19 vaccine. The first was for $483 million, the second, announced this past Sunday, for $472 million.

Asked about the report on the price of the Moderna vaccine, an HHS spokesperson said: “Each private sector partner involved with Operation Warp Speed has negotiated the terms of their own agreement, and at this time, vaccine pricing has not been determined.”

The company also received support from the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Disease, part of the National Institutes of Health, which collaborated on the development of the Covid-19 vaccine.

A spokesperson for NIAID did not immediately respond to a request for comment.

While some drug companies, like AstraZeneca and Johnson & Johnson (JNJ), have said that they will sell Covid-19 vaccine at cost, Moderna is not alone in intending to take a profit.

Albert Bourla, Pfizer’s CEO, told Barron’s on Tuesday that suggesting that companies should not make a profit on Covid-19 drugs and vaccines “doesn’t make sense.”