In a Pandemic, Pharma’s Strengths Emerge: Pipelines With Essential Drugs


Cowen’s 40th annual health-care conference in Boston last month was probably one of Wall Street’s last large gatherings for a long time. More than 2,000 people listened to pharmaceutical executives talking up their stocks. In the weeks that followed, the country shut itself in, and drug stocks sank with the rest of the stock market.

Yet the pharmaceutical industry may be one of the best places to take shelter as Covid-19 ravages the economy, given its focus on new products, a promising sales outlook, and low price/earnings ratios. Big Pharma’s treatments for cancer and other life-threatening diseases are essential by any definition. And the industry will hopefully deliver the vaccines that will let us gather together again.

After lagging behind the market in 2019, stocks like Merck (ticker: MRK), Pfizer (PFE), and Eli Lilly (LLY) have outperformed the S&P 500 index since the coronavirus disruption began. Many of pharma’s growth stocks, however, still trade for below-market earnings multiples.No one is saying the pandemic has left the drug industry unscathed. With millions out of work, RBC Capital Markets analyst Randall Stanicky expects a significant shift from private drug plans to government programs like Medicaid, which pay lower prices for drugs. Governments are already the main buyers in most of the world, and budgets everywhere will be squeezed in the aftermath of Covid-19 rescue programs.

Pharmaceutical-industry growth will be constrained, Stanicky fears, if clinical-trial recruitment for new drugs suffers. With medical conferences canceled and drug salespeople grounded, the launch of newly approved products will be delayed.

Against those negatives, Stanicky says that a defensive name he likes is Pfizer, which is in the process of spinning off legacy products of its Upjohn division to Mylan (MYL). Afterward, only about 20% of Pfizer’s global portfolio will be exposed to U.S. commercial payers, the analyst figures. That portfolio includes the vaccine Prevnar and the cancer drug Ibrance, two of the industry’s top-selling products. Stanicky thinks that Pfizer stock can rise to $44 from a recent $35.

Another defensive play he likes is Perrigo (PRGO), which sells mostly over-the-counter drugs, and is also the dominant U.S. supplier of store-brand staples such as infant formula and electrolyte liquids. Some 80% of Perrigo’s revenue comes from cash sales. In a recession, Stanicky thinks that Perrigo could increase sales and lift its $50 stock to at least $58.

Perrigo CEO Murray Kessler says that his company supplies over half of all U.S. volume in acetaminophen, the Tylenol equivalent, which has been in high demand to treat the pain and fever of Covid-19, along with Perrigo’s cough syrups and asthma remedies. “People don’t want to go to emergency rooms or their doctors’ offices,” Kessler says.

At the urging of retail partners like Walmart (WMT), Perrigo has shifted production lines from inessentials, like minoxidil for hair loss, to products that consumers are stockpiling, such as acetaminophen.

Such stockpiling also extends to prescription drugs, which is why Morgan Stanley analyst David Risinger increased his estimates for the industry’s March-quarter sales. Destocking will hurt the June quarter. He also expects sales disruptions for drugs associated with elective procedures, doctor visits, and out-of-pocket aesthetic treatments. But the magnitude is hard to predict.

Risinger likes Merck. Its solid growth prospects remain undervalued, he believes. If you put a 30-times multiple on its earnings from vaccines like Pneumovax and the human papillomavirus-preventive Gardasil and a 25-times multiple on its animal-health earnings, that implies just a single-digit earnings multiple for Merck’s drug unit.

That business includes Keytruda, an immunotherapy that is the world’s second-biggest drug after AbbVie’s Humira, and top-selling diabetes drug, Januvia. Risinger says Merck’s $83 shares could reach $89.

Risinger recently raised his rating on Bristol-Myers Squibb (BMY) to Overweight. The company can count on strong demand for its arthritis drug Orencia and cancer immunotherapy Opdivo. It got the blockbuster cancer drug Revlimid in last year’s acquisition of Celgene.

Bristol-Myers’ “prospects are solid,” he says, “and it’s one of the least expensive major pharmaceutical companies.” Risinger thinks that the $59 stock is worth at least $64.

At Cowen, pharma analyst Steve Scala’s favorite stock is AstraZeneca (AZN). The United Kingdom company has what he seeks in all of his Buy recommendations: a pipeline of products important enough to command high prices and boost the company’s profits. Its targeted cancer treatment Tagrisso is such a product, Scala says.

The company recently said that a Phase 3 trial of the drug showed “overwhelming efficacy” for lung-cancer patients. Scala believes that the drug’s sales can grow from $3.2 billion in 2019 to better than $8 billion by 2025.

Other AstraZeneca cancer treatments include the immunotherapy Imfinzi and targeted drug Lynparza. Behind them are drugs in clinical trials to treat illnesses like lupus, anemia, and asthma. The Cowen analyst bets that they will boost profits enough to lift the company’s American depositary receipts to $55 from a recent $49.

Novartis (NVS) is another favorite of Scala’s. The Swiss company has strong franchises in treatments for psoriasis and heart failure, along with a variety of cancer drugs. Cowen recently raised its target price for Novartis American depositary receipts, now trading at $87, to $110.

The other Swiss drug giant, Roche Holding (RHHBY), is one of Scala’s longtime recommendations. The researchers at its Genentech unit have produced the huge-selling cancer treatments Avastin, Rituxan, and Herceptin. Scala expects new approvals to follow data readouts on other Roche treatments for kidney, lung, breast, and uterine cancers. He foresees no interruption in the sales and earnings growth that he hopes will lift Roche’s $42 ADRs to $50.

AbbVie (ABBV) has a different appeal for the Cowen analyst. Its sales and earnings are dominated by the world’s biggest-selling drug, Humira, which treats autoimmune disorders like arthritis, psoriasis, and the intestinal illness known as Crohn’s disease. The stock has sold off to a recent $82 as Humira’s patent expirations near, but that leaves it at less than seven-times the earnings that Scala predicts for 2021. AbbVie’s dividend yield has risen to 5.8%.

And although Lilly’s stock has surged lately, Scala remains a big fan and thinks its $154 stock can hit $160.

“When I see pipelines with a bunch of letters and numbers, without a lot of data yet,” the Cowen analyst says, “I can have more confidence that Lilly will make those letters and numbers into real products, than most other companies.”

