The Number of Covid-19 Cases Is Rising. What Comes Next.

The coronavirus pandemic is worsening in the U.S. as the second half of the year gets under way.

This past Wednesday, more than 50,000 new cases were identified across the country, according to a Johns Hopkins University tracking tool, a record. That follows a week of startling new highs. More than 35,000 new cases have been identified in the U.S. each day since June 25.

For investors who have been betting on economic activity restarting in the coming months, that is a frightening trend.

“There are a lot of worst-case scenarios possible; one is a continuation of the present trajectory,” Stephen Morse, a professor of epidemiology at the Mailman School of Public Health at Columbia University, tells Barron’s.

The next few weeks and months will be critical in the effort to control the pandemic.

One key indicator will be the willingness of officials to reintroduce stricter lockdown measures where virus cases are spiking, including in Florida, Arizona, and Texas.

“If the highly populated states that have opened up but are also having escalating case numbers—if they don’t institute a shutdown, then we know that we’re going to that 100,000 case-per-day level,” says Dr. Geoffrey Porges, a senior research analyst at SVB Leerink. “That will be an early indicator.”

Over the longer term, the most closely watched signals will be data from trials of experimental Covid-19 vaccines, which investors hope will show that the drugmakers can provide the protection needed to allow life to return to normal.

Pfizer (ticker: PFE), Moderna (MRNA), Johnson & Johnson (JNJ), and a handful of other companies plan to progress their Covid-19 vaccines into new trials this month. On an investor call on Wednesday, Pfizer’s chief scientific officer, Mikael Dolsten, said the company hoped to begin enrolling patients in a 30,000-patient Phase 2B/3 trial of its Covid-19 vaccine in July, and would attempt to complete enrollment within four weeks, by late August or early September. Dolsten said he planned to be able to file for Food and Drug Administration approval by October.

Still, new guidelines from the FDA suggest that the agency may not be willing to authorize any Covid-19 vaccine this year. In a guidance document issued on Tuesday, the FDA said that an emergency use authorization may be appropriate only after studies have demonstrated that the vaccine is safe and effective. The agency also said studies should track patients for at least six months to evaluate the safety of a vaccine.

“This is not consistent with the many developers who have suggested that they could be on the market by the end of this year,” Porges wrote in a note to clients.

Moderna plans to begin dosing patients in its own 30,000-participant Phase 3 vaccine study in July. The health-care news website Stat reported on Thursday that the start of the trial had been delayed, although the company said that it still expected to begin this month. It said it is working on the final trial protocol with government agencies. The company has said it could have efficacy data on the vaccine by Thanksgiving.

Developers will also present data on studies of Covid-19 treatments before the end of the year. A handful are beginning early trials of antibody drugs that could treat Covid-19 infections, including Eli Lilly (LLY), Regeneron Pharmaceuticals (REGN), and Vir Biotechnology (VIR). Early data may be available in late summer or early fall.

Columbia’s Morse says that while a vaccine made widely available would be a best-case scenario this year, a drug that can treat the disease would be a good-case scenario.

Promising data on Covid-19 vaccines and treatments have moved the market significantly in recent months. Those moves have reversed quickly at times, and investors appear to be growing more savvy about demanding actual data from drug developers. But even good trial data won’t necessarily mean that the pandemic is over.

Manufacturing is already beginning for some of the experimental vaccines, but will take time to ramp up, and enormously complex logistical challenges around distribution remain.

In the short term, the health and economic outcome could be improved if states and counties that are seeing spikes in cases undertake certain strict measures.

“Sooner or later, some of these states are going to have to do what New York state has done, what places like Michigan, Ohio, Washington, have done, which is to get serious about isolating cases and tracing infections,” says SVB Leerink’s Porges. “You can only do that when you get to really low case numbers.”

To get there, Porges says, states need to reinstitute lockdowns and isolation, perhaps with police enforcement of those guidelines, over the next six to eight weeks.

Experts believe that widespread mask-wearing would also make a difference. The Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation projects that the U.S. could hit 175,000 deaths by October, up from the 128,000 currently recorded. But if 95% of Americans wore masks in public, the institute projects 24,000 fewer deaths.

Republican politicians have increasingly advocated mask-wearing in recent days. Whether they are able to persuade more Americans to wear masks will be apparent over the next few weeks, and could determine the extent of the pandemic over the second half of the year.

A vigorous testing and tracing regime isn’t easy. “This is a herculean task to do on a national scale in the U.S. or globally, and a stopgap until a vaccine,” Columbia’s Morse wrote.

And if no vaccine appears to be on the horizon by the end of the year, officials may see no option but to ride it out. “Absent a vaccine,” Morse wrote, “we may give up by then and let the pandemic run its course until much of the world is infected ...and the pandemic quiets down due to herd immunity ...This is essentially what we did with all the flu pandemics since 1918.”