It’s Crunch Time for Vaccine News. Brace Yourself.

The world is about to learn whether any among the first wave of Covid-19 vaccines will work. The health of every man, woman, and child depends on their success.

Also riding on the outcomes: more than $100 billion in investors’ money. That estimate roughly reflects the value the stock market is placing on the Covid-19 vaccines now in development, according to Dr. Geoffrey Porges at SVB Leerink.

Results from the first large-scale trials could come as soon as October. The U.S. government would then quickly decide whether the vaccines are good enough to use.

Investors should brace themselves. Even incremental news on Covid-19 vaccines has triggered sharp stock moves. Take the biotech company Moderna (ticker: MRNA), which has no approved products. Its market cap climbed by $4.9 billion in a single day in mid-May on company statements about a tiny preliminary trial of its vaccine, and then fell by $2 billion a day later. That roller coaster wasn’t just for Moderna investors: The SPDR S&P Biotech exchange-traded fund (XBI) rose 2.9% on the news, then fell 2.9% the next day.

The stocks are volatile because so much is at stake. Bernstein analyst Ronny Gal says drug companies could sell $20 billion worth of Covid-19 vaccines next year alone. That’s a lot even by Big Pharma standards: The world’s best-selling drug, AbbVie’s (ABBV) Humira, will likely clock $19.6 billion in sales next year, according to FactSet.

Yet the Covid-19 vaccine race is rife with uncertainties. No one knows how good these vaccines will be, or how safe. No one knows which among the leading offerings from companies like Moderna, Pfizer (PFE) and BioNTech (BNTX), Novavax (NVAX), and Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) will be the best. No one knows how long the vaccines will last, or how long the virus will be a threat, or if the public will trust the companies and the government enough to accept inoculations.

The first clues could come in October, when Pfizer and BioNTech expect data from their trial that will involve 30,000 people. Moderna, meanwhile, could have data soon after. And President Trump has increasingly signaled that he wants a vaccine to be available before the election.

What follows is a guide to the difficult questions health-care investors need to ask over the next few months:

What will happen to the stocks of companies developing Covid-19 vaccines when data emerge from large, late-stage trials?

The answer, of course, depends on how the data look. Don’t expect the vaccines to be perfect. Don’t even expect them to be great.

“Typically, the first vaccines against any pathogen are suboptimal,” Porges says. Pioneering vaccines usually are not very effective, he says, or cause substantial adverse reactions like arm pain and fever.

The Food and Drug Administration has said that the vaccines need to demonstrate 50% efficacy in clinical trials.

That 50% benchmark serves as a sort of base-case assumption for investors. Whether the vaccines meet or miss the benchmark, and how the safety profile looks, will drive investor reactions.

“What if the data are fantastic, and it shows an 80% reduction in Covid events relative to placebo?” says UBS analyst Navin Jacob. “That would be very meaningful. A significant amount of sales will be generated as a result of that.”

If the data look good, short-term investors may want to take their profits and run.

“The tension when we get this news is going to be between speculative investors who are going to say, ‘OK, sell the news,’ and longer-term investors who are going to say, ‘OK, I’ve de-risked the programs now, and they’re a legitimate long term investment,’ ” Porges says.

For the messenger RNA—specialist biotechs Moderna and BioNTech, the investor reaction could be amplified. Positive results would be seen as a confirmation of their technology and entire drug platform—with huge implications for each stock’s long-term value.

What happens to the rest of the vaccine stocks if one gets approved?

Scientists, regulators, and drug developers all say that the world will need more than one Covid-19 vaccine to beat the pandemic. But do investors agree?

At first, at least, approvals could boost all the stocks. “The first and second approvals are good for everybody,” Bernstein’s Gal says. A green light for any vaccine would help clarify what evidence the FDA will require to issue an emergency authorization or an approval, showing the way for other developers.

What happens if the FDA authorizes a vaccine, but the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s vaccine advisory committee doesn’t recommend that it be broadly administered?

Much attention has been paid in recent weeks to the FDA’s process for issuing an emergency use authorization, or EUA, by which the agency allows an unapproved drug to be used under certain conditions in a public-health emergency. But an EUA alone won’t guarantee widespread use.

SVB Leerink’s Porges says that just as important as an EUA will be whether the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices, an independent committee that advises the CDC, recommends use of the vaccine. The committee has already had discussions about how to prioritize the distribution of Covid-19 vaccines, and on Wednesday heard presentations from scientists working on the Moderna and Pfizer vaccines.

“The critical step is, does [the ACIP] recommend the vaccine for widespread use?” Porges says. “We think that’s highly unlikely.” He expects the committee to recommend any vaccine in the short term only for people at very high risk. “I don’t believe they are corruptible, and that’s why the medical community looks to them for their independent judgment, and that’s why the EUA is not going to matter,” Porges says.

That may not have a huge impact on short-term sales, since the U.S. government appears to have committed to purchase orders regardless of what the committee says. But it could affect the longer-term picture and how valuable the technological platforms of the biotechs end up looking.

What happens if there is widespread reluctance to take the vaccine?

Reluctance to take Covid-19 vaccines will probably not be limited to hardcore anti-vaxxers. The development timeline for these products has been an order of magnitude shorter than for a normal vaccine. If Pfizer’s vaccine were to be authorized for emergency use in late October, no human would have had the vaccine for more than six months, and very few people would have had it for more than four months.

Not only that, but the Moderna and Pfizer vaccines would be the first messenger RNA—based vaccines ever administered to the general public.

When Evercore ISI analyst Umer Raffat surveyed 750 investors and 350 biotech and pharmaceutical professionals in early August, roughly 70% said they would wait at least six months after an EUA to take a Covid-19 vaccine. Many said they would wait a year.

“It has direct ramifications for reopening,” Raffat says.

It’s unclear what that would mean for vaccine sales and drug-company revenues. Even if large numbers of Americans are unwilling to take Covid-19 vaccines, the U.S. government has already committed to buying billions of dollars worth of doses, so short-term revenue increases seem to be already guaranteed if the vaccines receive FDA authorizations.

How much will these vaccines be worth long term?

That’s the big question. Scientists don’t know how long the Covid-19 vaccines will offer protection from the virus, or whether the virus will persist after the first wave of vaccinations. It seems likely, however, that there will be some long-term market for Covid-19 vaccines. Bernstein’s Gal suggests the market could be worth $6 billion a year, but adds that number is effectively just a guess.

One factor, Gal says, is how many comparably good vaccines end up on the market. That will have a significant impact on the price that companies are eventually able to fetch for these vaccines over the long term.

“If everybody gives you 80% reduction in the risk of infection, then you know that’s a market that inherently goes to a very low price,” he says. “If there are two of them or one of them that is much better than [all the others], it [will likely be] a winner-take-all market.”

That winner may not come along for a while. Vaccine powerhouses Sanofi (SNY) and GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) are collaborating on a Covid-19 vaccine that won’t go into testing until September, and Merck (MRK), has its own program that has yet to reach the clinic.

The Contenders
Here are the leading Covid-19 vaccine developers and where their vaccines stand.
Bottom line: Do the current valuations make sense?

Until the Phase 3 data become available, it is hard to say. The surge in valuations has shaken some long-term investors who bought into these technologies early.

“Our first impulse was like, what’s going on?” says Christian Koch, a member of the investment management team at BB Biotech (BION.Switzerland) a Swiss biotech-investment company that has been a long-term holder of Moderna shares.

But Koch says that the infusion of capital into Moderna drove the company more quickly toward commercialization, boosting its value even if the Covid-19 vaccine fails. If the Phase 3 trials show the vaccine works, the company will be able to use data from the trial to move more quickly on other vaccines, he says.

UBS’s Jacob, meanwhile, has a $70 price target on BioNTech, and rates the stock Neutral; it trades at $65.59. He says his model attributes $9.8 billion in risk-adjusted cumulative sales of the Covid-19 vaccine to BioNTech over the next 10 years. The vaccine and its associated platform value accounts for $40 of the stock’s $70 value in his model.

Others are far more skeptical of the valuations. “It is very difficult to find realistic scenarios in which you can justify a positive return from the current valuation” attributed to the vaccine across the market, Porges says, a number he put at around $115 billion in an Aug. 6 note.

“If you get really optimistic about vaccination rates and a recurring market and needing a booster every one to two years, etc., then you can justify that…But that’s not good enough. Investors should be looking for a 15% to 20% return on that $115 billion, which means that you really got to find a way to justify $135 billion. That’s very difficult to do.”

