BioMarin Stock Slumps After FDA’s Surprise Rejection of a Hemophilia Gene Therapy

Shares of BioMarin Pharmaceutical plunged Wednesday morning, after the company said federal regulators had declined its application to market the first gene therapy for hemophilia. Wall Street has largely rated the stock a Buy, so it was blindsided by the decision of the Food and Drug Administration.

The FDA told BioMarin that it needs at least another year’s worth of data to be sure that the company’s treatment prevents the bleeding caused by the inherited disorder known as hemophilia A.

BioMarin stock (ticker: BMRN) was down 35% to $76.42 around midday Wednesday. The Dow Jones Industrial Average was up 0.3%. Hopes for approval of the company’s hemophilia treatment had recently lifted the shares as high as $130.

The company said it was surprised by the FDA rebuff, which the agency terms a “complete response letter.” The agency had designated the hemophilia treatment—known as valoctocogene roxaparvovec, or Valrox—as a breakthrough therapy and put it on speeded-up “priority review.”

“We are surprised and disappointed that the FDA introduced new expectations for the first time in the Complete Response Letter,” BioMarin CEO Jean-Jacques Bienaimé said. “We are confident in valoctocogene roxaparvovec gene therapy and its potential to redefine the treatment paradigm for people with hemophilia A.”

Gene therapies such as BioMarin’s hemophilia treatment aim to treat disorders by slipping corrective genetic instructions into cells to offset the garbled instructions issued by a defective gene. People with hemophilia A suffer uncontrolled bleeding because of a fault in the gene for a clotting protein known as clotting factor VIII.

As the first treatments aspiring to be “one and done” cures for diseases like hemophilia and muscular dystrophy, gene therapies raised hopes of eliminating years of suffering and expensive chronic health treatment.

Those hopes emboldened BioMarin to discuss pricing Valrox treatments at $2 million to $3 million apiece. Analysts had projected billions of dollars in revenue from the product within a few years of its approval. Rival genetic treatments for hemophilia are under development at Roche Holding (RHHBY) and by the team of Pfizer (PFE) and Sangamo Therapeutics (SGMO).

BioMarin said the FDA’s refusal letter was the first time the company learned that the agency wants two years of data on patients enrolled in the treatment’s continuing Phase 3 trial. That study enrolled its last patient in November 2019, so the data won’t be done until November 2021.

The rejected marketing application had been based on BioMarin’s Phase 1 and 2 studies, which had followed a small number of patients for several years. In those studies, treated patients had enjoyed a dramatic reduction in bleeding episodes. But levels of the clotting factor VIII varied widely among the test subjects and showed a worrisome tendency to decline over time. Measures of an enzyme that shows liver distress were also a concern.

Although patients in BioMarin’s early studies haven’t bled, their declining levels of active clotting factor caused some observers to wonder about the treatment’s durability. In its Wednesday announcement, BioMarin said the FDA was worried about durability, because of differences seen among patients in the company’s trials.

BioMarin said it is continuing its Valrox trials. It plans to meet with the FDA to discuss the steps needed to obtain approval.