Nearly 40% of S&P 500 Companies Report Earnings This Week. What’s at Stake.

Almost 300 companies, including roughly 40% of the S&P 500, will report second-quarter earnings results this week. Those companies account for about $13.5 trillion in cumulative market capitalization. That’s trillion with a capital T.

Of note, reports from trillion-dollar tech giants Apple, Amazon.com, and Google parent Alphabet are due out Thursday. The rest of the week will see industrial giants General Electric and Boeing, as well as Exxon Mobil, Visa, Mastercard, and Pfizer report their own numbers.

So far, earnings have been, well, lousy. About 25% of S&P 500 companies have reported second-quarter results with sales and earnings down about 9% and 16% year over year, respectively. That will continue. Wall Street expects sales down 6% and earnings off 20% at companies reporting earnings this week.

But earnings are backward-looking and the market is forward-looking. The S&P 500 is up almost 4% in July amid earnings turmoil. The Dow Jones Industrial Average and Nasdaq Composite have tacked on 2.5% and 3%, respectively.

Investors remain optimistic about a quick economic recovery from the Covid-induced downturn. They’ll be looking for clues about how the second half of 2020 is shaping up this week.

—Al Root

***
Republicans to Unveil Coronavirus Package Today
Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said Sunday that Republicans will release their coronavirus relief bill today. The package will contain another round of $1,200 checks to some American taxpayers, although it’s unclear what the income cutoff will be for the payments this time.

White House economic advisor Larry Kudlow also said the package will include an eviction moratorium, along with funding for state coronavirus testing efforts and school districts.
A key issue is whether the additional $600 in weekly unemployment benefits, which just expired, will be extended. Democrats are for it, while Republicans want to replace 70% of workers’ lost wages, which amounts to $200 a week for the typical jobless American, according to the New York Times.
Other key areas of disagreement: Democrats included $1 trillion for state and local governments in their package, while the GOP proposal includes no new funding. Republicans have insisted on a liability waiver for employers from employees who might sue over on-the-job exposure to the virus, a non-starter for Democrats.
To bridge the gap between the two parties, White House officials suggested a stopgap measure that includes a reduction in federal unemployment benefits and a liability waiver. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D., Calif.) has rejected that approach.
What’s Next: Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R., Ky.) predicts it will take weeks for a deal to be struck, while Sec. Mnuchin has been more optimistic about the ability to reach a quick agreement.

—Ben Walsh

***
Layoffs and Bankruptcies Cut Deep
Wells Fargo, America’s fourth-largest bank, will shed employees as it works to shave $10 billion a year in costs. Meanwhile, hedge-fund giant Bridgewater and energy-services behemoth Schlumberger are also cutting workers. Wells Fargo’s cost-cutting plans come as scores of companies are cutting jobs or filing for bankruptcy protection.

It’s unclear exactly how many workers Wells Fargo will shed, but the troubled bank’s announcement comes after it reported a quarterly loss for the first time in over a decade. It’s also still under a growth cap imposed by the Federal Reserve for its fake accounts scandal and other issues.
The bank is overstaffed compared with its big bank peers and has promised regulators that it will beef up its compliance and controls procedures, a process that will likely involve new employees.
Bridgewater, the world’s largest hedge fund, will lay off several dozen employees, The Wall Street Journal reported. The cuts are a significant cutback for the firm, which has posted negative returns in its flagship fund so far this year.
In a sign of the continuing fallout from the historic nosedive in oil prices, Schlumberger, the largest oil-field services company, will cut 21,000 jobs.
Retail has been particularly battered by layoffs. Forty retailers have filed for bankruptcy this year, costing thousands of workers their jobs. The pain isn’t limited to retailers that have gone under. Some that have survived, like Macy’s, are going through restructurings that put thousands of employees out of work.
What’s Next: Wells Fargo’s cuts could presage wider layoffs at the biggest American banks. One group that may be particularly hard-hit are employees at bank branches. They are often the lowest-paid bank employees, but as retailers can attest, a physical presence is now just as often a liability as it is an asset.

—Ben Walsh

***
Protests Intensify Across the U.S.
Portland and Seattle police departments declared weekend protests in their cities “riots,” and a man was shot and killed in Austin, as demonstrators continued to gather across the U.S. to protest police violence and the use of federal agents to keep the peace.

In Seattle, some protesters broke windows and started a fire at a construction site where the county government is building a youth detention facility. After the property damage began, police used pepper spray and a rush of officers to clear protesters. Thousands participated in the protests and dozens were arrested.
A protester in Austin was shot and killed after he approached a car that reportedly drove into a group of demonstrators. The driver of the car shot the man, who authorities say may have been carrying a rifle. Police took the driver into custody and are treating the shooting as a homicide.
Oregon lost its lawsuit Friday against the Trump administration over the deployment of federal agents in the city, and a federal judge temporarily blocked a Seattle law banning the use of tear gas and pepper spray.
What’s Next: With protests spreading to more cities and President Trump threatening to send more federal agents, tensions are poised to escalate.

—Ben Walsh

***
First Hurricane of 2020 Strikes Coronavirus Hot Spot
More than 194,000 homes and businesses were without power on the Texas Gulf Coast Sunday, after Hurricane Hanna made landfall there with 90 miles-per-hour winds.

Corpus Christi was among the cities hit hardest. The coastal city is the seat of Nueces County, which has more than 10,000 confirmed coronavirus cases, with 137 deaths and 156 Covid patients currently in intensive care units there.
While Hanna was downgraded to a tropical storm early Sunday morning, its impact will be felt for weeks, if not months, in a state with the third highest number of cases in the U.S. according to data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Extreme weather has already strained public services, as do heat waves in other Covid hot spots like Phoenix, which will reach 115 degrees this week, and Miami, which has been in the low 90s.
What’s Next: Hurricane Douglas brushed Hawaii with rain and wind, and more high temperatures are expected. Extreme summer weather could hamper efforts to contain the virus, as people seek out air-conditioned public spaces and shelters that could get overcrowded. What’s more, the additional relief efforts will further stress states’ finances and hospital systems.

—Anita Hamilton

***
German Business Climate Index Climbs for Third Month
There’s growing optimism surrounding Europe’s top economy, as the highly regarded Ifo business climate index for Germany rose in July for the third straight month.

The index rose to 90.5 in July from 86.5 in June, pulling the index within 6% of its prepandemic peak from February and topping economist forecasts.
The gains were particularly pronounced for the expectations index, though assessments of current activity also improved.
Manufacturing, services, trade and construction measures all rose—and on net, the service sector index turned positive.
What’s Next: The Ifo figures follow the well-received flash eurozone purchasing managers index data, showing European business confidence on the rise as the region recovers from the coronavirus more quickly than the U.S. The risk is whether the virus will erupt again on the continent, particularly after the U.K. over the weekend imposed a quarantine on travelers from Spain.

—Steve Goldstein