Stocks Are Wobbling as Markets Digest Trade Talks, Consumer Confidence

Stocks were mixed near midday on Tuesday, losing some momentum seen earlier as investors assess news about trade talks with China and the latest developments with Covid-19.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average was off 0.5% in late morning trading, while the S&P 50 0 edged ahead 0.1% and the Nasdaq Composite gained 0.3%.

Reports that the U.S. and China were once again talking trade—for the first official time since May—was heralded as good news by some investors, considering how tensions have been rising between the two countries, The positive sentiment was bolstered by China’s declaration that it planned to stick with the phase-one agreement reached in January.

Still, it isn’t surprising that stocks are wobbling, given how quickly the trade situation can change. And then there is the latest data on consumer confidence, which dropped in August to a new low for the pandemic, following the increase in infections in July.

““Consumer confidence has now taken two steps back after one giant step forward in June,” writes Plante Moran Financial Advisors’ Chief Investment Officer Jim Baird. “Although the economy continues to recover, initial hopes for a faster return to a prepandemic normal have faded.” 

The next test is the beginning of the school year. “If the increase in cases can be relatively contained, it may provide a bit of a boost to sentiment; conversely, a surge reflective of a widespread outbreak would undoubtedly weigh further on confidence and spending,” Baird writes.

That said, if the S&P 500 and Nasdaq can hold on to their gains, the indexes could close at yet another record high, as they did on Monday.

“Even without strong directional drivers, and no movement on the next Covid-19 stimulus bill, and expectations for no negotiations until after Labor Day, stocks traditionally trade higher during the last two weeks of summer before Labor Day,” notes Tigress Financial Intelligence’s Ivan Feinseth.

As for individual stocks, Best Buy (ticker: BBY) was down 5.5% despite a better-than-expected second quarter.

Exxon Mobil (XOM) fell 3.1% after being dropped from the Dow; Pfizer (PFE) lost 1.7% for the same reason.

Gap (GPS), meanwhile, popped 9% on an upgrade from Citigroup arguing that investors are ignoring $3 billion in enterprise value.