Pfizer Offers Hope, and Details, on Potential Coronavirus Vaccine

Promising and detailed new data from the drug giant Pfizer and its German biotech partner BioNTech on an experimental Covid-19 vaccine lifted both stocks and bumped the S&P 500 into the green.

The companies said that all 24 patients who received lower doses of the vaccine developed levels of neutralizing antibodies after 28 days that were roughly two times higher than those found in patients who have recovered from Covid-19 infections.

The companies also said that there were no serious adverse events in the study, though there were some adverse reactions, including a low-grade fever, mostly after the second dose. The companies expect to begin a Phase 2b/3 safety and efficacy study in up to 30,000 participants as early as this month.

More Reading
FDA Issues Guidance
Shares of Pfizer (PFE) climbed 4.5% Wednesday morning while shares of BioNTech (BNTX) were up 7.6% in premarket trading before trading in the stock was halted. The stock climbed 4.3% after trading resumed. The S&P 500 was up 0.2%.

The news from the two drug developers was promising and detailed enough to excite a market that has grown increasingly jaded by claims of promising results in early Covid-19 vaccine trials. On Tuesday, shares of Inovio Pharmaceuticals (INO) fell 15% after the company released a statement announcing positive interim data from a Phase 1 study of its own Covid-19 vaccine. The release included little in the way of detailed data.

On Wednesday morning, Inovio was still falling, with shares down 18.5%. Maxim Group analyst Naureen Quibria downgraded the stock from Buy to Hold, writing that the success of the company’s Covid-19 vaccine is already reflected in the stock’s price.

Inovio said in a statement to Barron’s that the company will publish full results from the Phase 1 study “soon” in a peer-reviewed journal.

The Pfizer and BioNTech news on Wednesday morning, meanwhile, inspired no such reservations from investors. The release was more detailed than similar updates from Moderna (MRNA) and Inovio have been. What’s more, the companies made a manuscript of the full results available on a so-called pre-print server, which publishes scientific papers as they await peer review.

“These preliminary data are encouraging in that they provide an initial signal that [the vaccine] is able to produce neutralizing antibody responses in humans at or above the levels observed in convalescent sera, and that it does so at relatively low dose levels,” Cantor Fitzgerald analyst Louise Chen wrote in a note out Wednesday morning. “The initial safety data also looks acceptable. This is clearly good news, and we have highlighted PFE and BNTX’s program as one of the most promising vaccine programs in the fight against COVID-19.”

The vaccine under development by the two companies is a so-called messenger RNA-based vaccine. Other companies pursuing similar approaches include Moderna and Sanofi (SNY) in collaboration with Translate Bio (TBIO).

In the scientific paper accompanying the release, the authors wrote that “a clear dose-level response was observed after Doses 1 and 2 in adults 18-55 years of age.”

The authors note that, while the study compared the effects of the vaccine to blood of recovered Covid-19 patients, the amount of immunity needed to protect from a Covid-19 infection remains unknown. The authors also say that the data does not yet assess efficacy or safety more than two weeks after the second vaccine dose is administered.

“These clinical findings for the BNT162b1 RNA-based vaccine candidate are encouraging and strongly support accelerated clinical development and at-risk manufacturing to maximize the opportunity for the rapid production of a SARS-CoV-2 vaccine to prevent COVID-19 disease,” the authors wrote.

The companies say that they aim to manufacture 100 million doses of the vaccine this year, and up to 1.2 billion next year. A two-dose regimen of the vaccine was administered in the study.

