Treasury yields edge up off lows on vaccine and fiscal-stimulus hopes

U.S. Treasury yields came off their lows on Monday as investors tracked developments around fiscal stimulus packages by U.S. and European Union leaders as part of efforts to cushion the economic damage from the COVID-19 pandemic.

At the same time, pharmaceutical ventures reported promising data on coronavirus vaccine candidates.

What are Treasurys doing?
The 10-year Treasury note yield TMUBMUSD10Y, 0.845% was down 0.9 basis point to 0.619%, after falling as low as 0.602%, while the 2-year note rate TMUBMUSD02Y, 0.148% was virtually unchanged at 0.149%. The 30-year bond yield TMUBMUSD30Y, 1.627% fell 1.1 basis points to 1.318%.

Bond prices rise as yields falls.

What’s driving Treasurys?
After a morning slump, equities rallied, nudging bond yields lower amid a raft of developments pointing to progress toward a coronavirus vaccine. That said, government-bond yield moves were fairly modest, keeping Treasurys around ultralow levels even as the Nasdaq Composite Index produced its 28th record close of 2020, driven by a run-up in technology-related stocks.

Equity markets appeared to achieve some buoyancy and gather momentum throughout the session as a coronavirus candidate from AstraZeneca AZN, -1.04% and the University of Oxford showed promising results in a study published in The Lancet Medical Journal. Pfizer PFE, -0.38% and Biotech BNTX, -0.48% also reported that trials for its vaccine candidate in Germany produced a strong antibody response.

The relatively tepid by in bonds by comparison by be due to lingering worries about COVID-19, coronavirus spread, with the U.S. recording nearly 3.8 million COVID-19 cases and more than 140,000 deaths, according to data aggregated by Johns Hopkins University.

Investors also await details on fiscal stimulus measures across the U.S. and EU. Analysts have noted central bankers have employed outsize monetary-policy efforts, and urged governments to deliver additional fiscal measures to help economies recover from the viral outbreak.

EU leaders were in Brussels to discuss bailout funds for economies harmed by the coronavirus. The summit has been extended to four days as EU leaders looked to resolve opposition to a proposed multibillion-dollar recovery fund, with reports suggesting that negotiators were moving closer to a deal.

As for the U.S., negotiations for a second stimulus package were set to begin as lawmakers return from a two-week recess. Congress will race the clock to come up with an agreement as additional jobless benefits provided through the last stimulus bill are set to expire at the end of this week.

What did market participants’ say?
“Agreeing on another round of fiscal stimulus needed to avoid a plunge to household income is the most pressing issue at this point,” said Axel Botte, a strategist at Ostrum Asset Management.