Bezos Sells Amazon Stock and Raises $3 Billion. That’s Nothing.

With the Nasdaq Composite up 23% in 2020 and flirting with 11,000, one person saw fit to take some money off the table: Amazon.com founder and CEO Jeff Bezos.

The world’s richest man sold 1 million shares, raising more than $3 billion. It’s an eye-popping sum, but not as eye-popping as this: Bezos sold just 2% of his holdings and still owns more than 54 million Amazon shares worth roughly $175 billion.

To put that in perspective, the total household wealth in America is more than $100 trillion, which means the average household has accumulated assets over liabilities worth about $800,000. Bezos’s 2% sale would be the equivalent of raising $14,000 by selling stock or taking out a small home-equity loan.

Bezos, in case you were wondering, contributes about 0.2% of the total household wealth in America. That doesn’t include the wealth Amazon employees have amassed.

Bezos has his cash now, but the market might restore the value of his stock. Even with the Nasdaq heading for a lower open Thursday, don’t be surprised if the stock finds a way to head higher in the days and weeks to come.

—Al Root

***
Trump and Biden Change Their Convention Plans (Again)
Former Vice President Joe Biden will address the country from his home in Delaware during the Democratic National Convention, The Wall Street Journal reported. Meanwhile President Donald Trump says he may give his acceptance speech from the White House.

Biden’s decision to call off an in-person speech at the convention in Milwaukee comes after public health officials warned Democrats against speakers traveling there during the pandemic. Instead, the convention will be almost entirely virtual, and delegates are encouraged to participate remotely.
Trump will also give his acceptance speech remotely. On Wednesday he floated the possibility of delivering his address from the White House. “I think it’s a beautiful setting and we are thinking about that,” he told “Fox and Friends.”
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said such a move would “degrade” the White House, and two Senate Republicans, John Cornyn of Texas and John Thune of South Dakota, questioned whether it would be legal, given prohibitions against using government resources for campaign purposes.
Republicans have canceled most of their convention events and called off the portion set to take place in Jacksonville, Fla. entirely.
What’s Next: Biden is set to announce his vice presidential choice next week, and the Trump campaign is pushing for an extra debate between the two candidates in early September due to the expected jump in early voting. Currently, the first of three debates is set for Sept. 29.

—Ben Walsh

***
First Top-Level College Sports Team Cancels 2020 Season
The University of Connecticut became the first top-level college football program to scrap its 2020 season because of the pandemic. The news comes as the National Collegiate Athletic Association announced broad new health protocols for all fall sports.

“The safety challenges created by Covid-19 place our football student-athletes at an unacceptable level of risk,” the university’s athletic director David Benedict said in a statement. The team had a 2-10 losing season last year, and the university is in a major financial crunch due to the coronavirus.
Meanwhile the NCAA announced that it will require all college sports teams to ensure “regular testing, separation of college athletes and essential personnel from all other nonessential personnel, and physical distancing and masking policies during all aspects of noncompetition.”
NCAA schools must also allow student athletes to opt out of playing while still honoring their athletic scholarship, cannot force players to sign liability waivers, and must cover any Covid-19 medical costs. Division III fall championships are canceled.
The NCAA’s announcement comes after players in two major football conferences, the Pac-12 and the Big Ten, called for major changes in health protocols. Other demands, like a third-party selected by players enforcing the health rules, were not addressed by the NCAA. Pac-12 players have said they will sit out the season if their demands aren’t met.
What’s Next: College football’s return looks likely to be hampered by the same issues that have hit Major League Baseball. For instance, as players returned to campus for limited workouts, the University of Texas announced that 13 of its football players were self-isolating or had tested positive for Covid-19.

—Ben Walsh

***
Drugmakers Sign Deals for Vaccines
Johnson & Johnson joined the list of companies with agreements to sell Covid-19 vaccines to the U.S. government.

J&J said Wednesday it has a deal valued at more than $1 billion to supply 100 million doses of its experimental Covid-19 vaccine to the U.S., if the product receives approval or emergency-use authorization from the Food and Drug Administration.
The news comes days after the European drugmakers Sanofi and GlaxoSmithKline announced their own $2.1 billion agreement to supply 100 million doses of their vaccine to the U.S., and two weeks after Pfizer and BioNTech announced similar deals.
The biotech firm Moderna said it has $400 million in deposits from countries lining up for its Covid-19 vaccine. Moderna expects to spend as much as $750 million this year as it scales up production.
Researchers and companies developing Covid-19 vaccines are taking new steps to tackle a longtime challenge: Those who need the vaccines most urgently, including Black and Latino people, are least likely to participate in clinical trials to determine whether they work safely, The Wall Street Journal reported.
What’s Next: Prices for vaccines are likely to range from about $10 a dose to more than $70 for a regimen. “As more companies make deals to sell the government their still-experimental vaccines, pricing is threatening to become a fraught political issue,” Barron’s reporter Josh Nathan-Kazis wrote.

—Mary Romano

***
July Jobs Numbers Point to a Cooling Comeback
After June’s blowout jobs number, July is looking a bit more dreary. The Bureau of Labor Statistics releases July’s nonfarm payrolls Friday morning, and the consensus among economists surveyed by FactSet is that 1.58 million jobs were added.

That’s a big drop from the whopping 4.8 million new jobs added in June or even the 2.7 million added in May.
Most worrying is the shortfall in private-sector hiring as measured by Automatic Data Processing. The payroll provider reported that private payrolls increased by just 167,000 in July, well below the 1 million that economists had expected, and a massive drop from the 4.3 million private-sector jobs created in June.
There are other signs the nascent labor market recovery is slowing. The number of people applying for unemployment benefits for the first time has started to tick up, while hiring by small businesses is starting to weaken.
What’s Next: With Democrats and Republicans still working to hash out a deal on another stimulus bill, a dismal jobs number puts added pressure on lawmakers to agree on a relief package that will help Americans who still aren’t bringing in a paycheck stay afloat.

—Ben Walsh

***
Bank of England Warns About Slow Recovery
The U.K. central bank kept its key rate steady at 0.1% and its bond-buying target unchanged at £745 billion, but warned that the British economy would not rise back to its 2019 level before the end of 2021. It also gave the clearest signal yet that it no longer considers negative rates as taboo.

The BoE’s short-term prospects for the U.K. economy are however less somber than they were three months ago, with unemployment at the end of the year seen at 7.5% of the population (versus 10% previously.)
Inflation currently stands at an annual 0.6% but could decline to 0.25% in the latter part of the year, the BoE said, warning that it could take another two years before it finally hits its official 2% annual target.
The bank said it is still reviewing its rate policy, but that negative rates are among the options under study. It “will continue to review the appropriateness of a negative policy rate as a policy tool alongside its broader toolkit,” it indicated.
What’s Next: Both decisions on rates and quantitative easing were unanimous among the nine-member monetary policy committee. But tough choices lie ahead when the bank will have to decide how to contribute to the stimulus the U.K. economy will need when, come January, it is hit by another major shock—Brexit.

—Pierre Briançon

