Pfizer Reports Earnings Tomorrow. Here’s What to Expect.

The big pharma firm Pfizer had a rough spring but a bang-up summer, with shares climbing 15.2% so far in July, while the S&P 500 rose just 3.7%.

The picture for the full year isn’t great: Pfizer is down 3.9% in 2020, while the S&P 500 has lost just 0.5%. On Tuesday morning, the company will report its second-quarter earnings, giving investors a look at its plans for the rest of the year.

Pfizer (ticker: PFE) has scheduled an earnings call for 10 a.m. on Tuesday.

The update comes at a moment of peril and promise for the company. Pfizer, with its partner BioNTech (BNTX), are developing what some analysts have called the most promising of the first batch of Covid-19 vaccines. The U.S. government committed to buying nearly $2 billion worth of the vaccine, if it is approved or authorized by the Food and Drug Administration, at a price of $19.50 per dose. Though Pfizer, alone among its competitors, took no government money to develop its vaccine, the prices of its vaccine and those from its competitors are threatening to restart the drug-price controversies that have bedeviled big pharma stocks.

Shares of Pfizer trade at 14.4 times earnings expected over the next 12 months, just over its 5-year average of 13.4 times earnings, according to FactSet. Of the 16 analysts tracked by FactSet who follow the stock, half rate it a Buy, and half rate it a Hold.

Here is a snapshot of investors’ expectations and recent history.

— Analysts expect Pfizer to report earnings per share for the second quarter of $0.67, and sales of $11.6 billion, according to FactSet. In the first quarter, Pfizer reported earnings per share of $0.80, and sales of $12 billion.

— Pfizer is in the midst of a major corporate transition. Sometime later this year, the company plans to spin off a division called Upjohn, which sells off-patent drugs. Upjohn will merge with the generic drugmaker Mylan (MYL), leaving Pfizer almost exclusively focused on selling new drugs it can create or buy.

— In recent weeks, investors’ focus on Pfizer has shifted to its Covid-19 vaccine. The company has laid out a timeline that is among the most aggressive among the companies chasing a Covid-19 vaccine, saying it will seek authorization from the FDA as early as October.

— In a note out Monday, J.P. Morgan analyst Chris Schott wrote that the run-up in Pfizer share price in July as a result of excitement over the Covid-19 vaccine “reflects a near best case scenario on the vaccine... despite significant work ahead to de-risk the program as well as an unclear long-term commercial opportunity.” Scott rates the stock Neutral, saying that while there is a chance the stock could still rally on vaccine news, too much risk remains to be confident that the company can weather the patent troubles that will catch up with it in 2026.

— Pfizer faced a major disappointment in late May, when the company announced that a Phase 3 trial of its drug Ibrance in early breast cancer failed an efficacy and futility analysis. The stock fell 7.2% on the next trading day.

