Tesla stock leapt when the company reported a surprise profit last week, only to fall 3.5% Tuesday when the company filed its quarterly report with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

The drop seems to have been catalyzed by warranty accounting—a little-talked-about issue that led one analyst to downgrade the stock at midday—a rarity on Wall Street. Tesla’s warranty expense did fall in the third quarter, a sign that the company’s accounting might be aggressive, but a look at the car industry indicates Tesla isn’t an outlier in terms of warranties.

The company didn’t respond to a request for comment on Tuesday.

U.S. companies make quarterly filings with the SEC on a form called the 10-Q. Those disclosures include far more detail than companies can include in quarterly earnings news releases, so investors and analysts dig through the filings looking for revelations.

Filings can have a big impact on a stock like Tesla (ticker: TSLA) because the company is highly controversial already. Analysts’ targets for the stock price range from $200 to $530—a $330 spread that is about 100% of the level where the shares currently trade. It’s more than double the typical ratio for stocks in the Dow Jones Industrial Average.

The divergence of views about Tesla can also be seen in the stock’s volatility. The unexpected third-quarter profit, for instance, triggered a two-day 29% gain in shares. Profit margins were better than expected. but after the Q came out, at least one analyst raised the concern that the strength might not last.

Roth Capital analyst Craig Irwin cut his rating from the equivalent of Hold to Sell Tuesday afternoon, writing that lower warranty expenses boosted margins—and that margins might not be sustainable. He left his target price for shares unchanged at $249.

It’s impossible to know all of the internal corporate assumptions that go into estimating a warranty expense. The quality of the car and the extensiveness of the warranty are factors—as are things such as repair costs and product recalls. Expenses that require a lot of managerial judgment can make investors nervous. Managers, after all, might have an incentive to minimize estimates to make the business look as good as possible.

But comparing Tesla’s warranty expenses with those of other car makers shows no reason for alarm. Tesla’s warranty expense equaled about 2.7% of automotive sales in the third quarter. The industry average, based on recent financial filings, is about 2.5%, Barron’s research indicates.

This calculation, of course, is only a rough guide. We aren’t comparing apples to apples. There isn’t enough disclosure of assumptions to make perfect comparisons. Some companies, for instance, separate out recalls from warranty expenses, while others don’t. Some car makers report using U.S. accounting standards, while others use international standards. Still, the overall data offers a feel for what is going on.

Ford (F) talked about higher warranty expenses on its third-quarter conference call and investors can see it in the numbers. At Ferrari (RACE), it looks as if warranty expenses are incredibly low relative to sales. Don’t forget that Ferrari is a hyper-luxury product, so margins are far higher than at other car companies. That means Ferraris are expensive. Parts to repair them cost, roughly, what other car makers must pay.

And of course, Ferrari quality could be higher, meaning there is less chance the company will have to deliver on a warranty. These are Ferraris, after all.

Tesla’s third-quarter results were better than expected, delighting bulls and discouraging bears. Warranties may have played a small role, but the company’s ultimate success will depend on the products Tesla offers and how efficiently it manufactures them. Accounting—in the long run—will play no role.
