If you’re still a small-bucks investor and you want to put, say, $100 every month into the SPDR S&P 500 exchange-traded fund, you’re out of luck.

The ETF, the world’s biggest by assets, sells for $300 a share. At most brokerage houses there’s no way to buy less of it at a time than one share.

But that may be about to change.

Online broker Charles Schwab (ticker: SCHW) is planning to launch “fractional stock” ownership in a bid to woo younger investors, the company’s founder and president Charles Schwab said in a recent interview with The Wall Street Journal. That could make it possible for individual investors to buy shares in companies, and ETFs, in smaller or exact-dollar amounts.

Schwab spokesman Michael Cianfrocca declined to comment further.

Financial advisors say such moves—by Schwab and other big brokers—are long overdue and could be great news for investors. Newer online brokerage houses have already introduced fractional stock ownership as a way to lure younger retail investors.

“This could potentially be a game-changer if you could specify the dollar amount and say, ‘I want to buy, say, $100 of the Gold SPDR [GLD],’” says Peter Palion, a certified financial planner at Master Plan Advisory in East Meadow, N.Y.

That would be a win for investors who are handling small amounts of money, and for those who want to invest a certain amount of money each month into retirement accounts, he says. It would allow some investors to buy $25 or $50 at a time of individual stocks or ETFs, or to invest, say, exactly $500 a month in one or more ETFs as part of a regular investment plan.

“I think it’s a great idea,” agrees Dennis Nolte, a financial advisor at Seacoast Bank in Oviedo, Fla. “Why wouldn’t you want to buy the S&P 500 ETF when you could buy $25 worth?”

Currently, stocks and ETFs can only be bought in whole units through most brokers. That means the minimum investment in, say, Amazo.com (AMZN) is the price of a single share, currently more than $1,700. Dow Jones Industrial Average component Boeing (BA) trades for around $350 a share. Apple (AAPL) is more than $240 per share. Tesla (TSLA) is more than $295.

But the bigger advantage for most investors, say financial planners, is likely to come from fractional ownership of ETFs, which are open-ended mutual funds that are bought and sold much like stocks. Such funds have allowed investors to hold diversified portfolios much more easily. They typically charge far lower costs than traditional actively managed mutual funds.

The Investment Company Institute, which represents the mutual fund and ETF industries, says that although it has already been theoretically possible for ETFs to be traded in fractional amounts, it is not common. Brokers have to set up structures so that ownership can be pooled, and fractional shares can be credited to different customers. Currently the main way fractional shares of ETFs are owned are through dividend reinvestment plans, where investors effectively take an ETF’s dividends in the form of extra partial shares in the fund.

A move to make fractional ownership more widely available could spell further trouble for traditional mutual funds, says Nolte. Allowing fractional ownership of ETFs would take away one of those funds’ last remaining advantages over ETFs, which is the ability to invest a specific amount—say $1,000—at a time.

That is a big reason such funds remain the staple of most 401(k) plans, many experts say.

ETFs, which you buy and sell on the stock market, remain in total much smaller than traditional mutual funds, which you typically buy or sell directly from the fund manager. According to the Investment Company Institute, traditional funds have about $16.6 trillion in net assets, not including money-market funds. The figure for ETFs is less than $4 trillion.

ETFs have seen their net assets quadruple since 2009. Meanwhile, traditional funds have seen heavy outflows. Equity-focused funds are on track for their fifth year in a row of net redemptions.

ETFs have been taking market share from traditional open-ended funds for many years, the industry reports. That’s meant big savings for ordinary investors, who have swapped funds with average fees of around 1% or more a year for low-cost ETFs whose fees are typically a fraction of that. That has been bad news for money managers, who have seen revenues and profit margins squeezed.

Charles Schwab shares are down 1.4% from the start of the year. The S&P 500 (SPX) is up 20% and the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) is up 15% over the same period.
