Wall Street bears begrudgingly increased their price targets for Tesla stock after the company unexpectedly reported a profit for the third quarter. They all remain downbeat about the stock.

Tesla (ticker: TSLA) has been a controversial stock from the start. Wall Street analysts’ targets for the stock price range from about $200 to $530—a $330 differential that is more than 100% of what the shares sell for now. That so-called bull-bear spread is about twice as wide as the average for stocks in the Dow Jones Industrial Average, according to Barron’s calculations.

The spread was even wider before the electric-car company reported its earnings on Wednesday. On Friday, one of the most downbeat analysts increased his price target from $150 to $200 a share, still about 36% below recent trading levels.

“The surprise profit of course led to a sharp short squeeze, even as parts of it appear non-repeatable,” wrote Barclay’s analyst Brian Johnson in a Friday research report. “And while profits are likely to contract as Tesla ramps China and Model Y in 2020, the current bullish sentiment will be hard to dispel for a while.”

Still, he kept the equivalent of a Sell rating on the stock. That could make sense if Tesla isn’t able to repeat its strong performance.

More than 25% of Tesla stock available to trade is sold short by bearish investors betting shares will go down. That is multiples higher than short interest in typical S&P 500 stocks. High short interest raises the likelihood of a so-called short squeeze, when bears rush to cover following good news.

Some other bearish analysts also raised their prices targets after the third-quarter numbers. Credit Suisse analyst Dan Levy took his price target from $189 to $200 a share, and J.P. Morgan analyst Ryan Brinkman raised his from $200 to $220 a share.

“We expect a positive reaction in Tesla shares owing to the magnitude of 3Q beat, but are unsure that this is really the breakout quarter that is likely to be claimed by the bulls,” wrote Brinkman in a Thursday research report.

The stock has reacted positively, rising almost $60, or more than 20%, since Tesla reported its results.

Bullish analysts’ price targets didn’t change much. New Street Research analyst Pierre Ferragu left his forecast, the highest on the Street, at $530 a share. Macquarie analyst Maynard Um and Baird analyst Ben Kallo kept their targets at $400 a share and $355, respectively. Kallo called the result a “clean beat,” saying quarter-on-quarter growth in Tesla’s margins was particularly good.

Investors should note the three bulls cover a mix of tech, car and renewable-technology stocks. All three bears cover just the auto sector. Car people are far less likely to recommend Tesla shares than tech analysts are.

For the year, Tesla shares are now about 5% year to date, trailing the 18% return of the Dow Jones Industrial Average. Over one year, Telsa stock is up about 4%, closer to the 11% gain of the Dow.
