Now that Wall Street already knows Tesla’s third-quarter delivery numbers, the electric-vehicle maker’s profits and cash flow are in focus.

But predicting those figures isn’t easy. Like most things about Tesla, there is a wide range of opinions on Wall Street.

Third-quarter Tesla (ticker: TSLA) earnings estimates range from a loss of $1.25 a share to earnings of 7 cents a share. And that range is determined using the so-called “Olympic” method—tossing out the bottom and top scores. All estimates would imply an even wider divergence of opinion. Still, a range that wide belies the consensus call for a loss of 37 cents.

Earnings, however, at the company should matter less than free cash flow. As volumes ramp up at the EV pioneer, investors will want to see less dependency on capital markets to fund growth.

“Quarterly results could be challenging...but we expect Tesla to show progress on industrial margin, Shanghai ramp-up and future products,” wrote Jefferies analyst Philippe Houchois in a Tuesday research report. He rates Tesla shares Buy with a $300 price target.

Houchois is calling for positive free cash flow in the third quarter. Tesla has only generated free cash flow in five quarters over the past five years. Over that time, the cumulative free cash flow burn at the company has been about $8 billion. Of course, Tesla has grown rapidly over that span too, increasing vehicle output by more than 11 times.

RBC analyst Joseph Spak, on the other hand, isn’t as bullish. He rates shares the equivalent of Sell and has a $190 price target. “Tesla [gets] credit for getting their volume up to about 350,0000 units, [but they] have yet to show they can be sustainably profitable,” wrote Spak in a Monday research report. The company is “instead relying on the capital markets to effectively subsidize the consumer and Tesla’s losses,” he added.

Spak doesn’t publish widely a quarterly free cash flow estimate. His third quarter estimate for Ebitda—short for earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization—estimate is $686 million, about $120 million below the Wall Street consensus. Ebitda less capital spending is one proxy for free cash flow.

Houchois, for his part, doesn’t include quarter free cash flow in his preview report. A difference in reporting can make it difficult to compare published analyst models. Based on their view of earnings, Houchois—the bull—likely expects about $200 to $250 million more in free cash flow than Spak—the bear.

Telsa reports third-quarter numbers after the market close Oct. 23.

Tesla shares are down 22% year to date, compared with the 16% gain of the Dow Jones Industrial Average. Over the past year, Tesla stock is flat compared with the 10% gain of the Dow. Tesla shares are up 0.7% to $259.64 at 10:24 a.m. on Wednesday.
