Tesla is expected to disclose its third-quarter delivery and production numbers this week, and Wall Street analysts are weighing up how the numbers might turn out.

The average forecast among analysts tracked by FactSet has risen to 99,000 amid reports that CEO Elon Musk said in an internal email that the company had “a shot” at reaching 100,000. (Tesla records revenue when it delivers a car to its owner, so the quarterly numbers help investors guess at its full financial results.)

On Tuesday, Deutsche Bank analyst Emmanuel Rosner boosted his estimate of deliveries by 2,500 to 97,500. A quarter with 100,000 deliveries “is achievable but heavily dependent on logistics execution in the final days of the month,” Rosner wrote, saying stronger-than-expected demand in several foreign markets could drive the number upward.

He has a Hold rating on the shares and a target of $245 for the stock price. The FactSet average is $271, while the stock was at $243.05, down 0.7%, on Wednesday morning. The S&P 500 had fallen 1.3%.

Meanwhile, Morgan Stanley analyst Adam Jonas, who has an Equal Weight rating and a $230 price target on Tesla stock, said Wednesday that concerns about demand remain, but “are far less severe than they were 3 or 4 months ago.”

One oft-cited worry about the stock—the effect of competition in electric vehicles—may be overdone, Jonas wrote.

“While we believe there is a fairly daunting stream of incremental competition incoming, we haven’t yet seen any material signs of impact on Tesla sales as a result,” Jonas wrote. “That is not to say this cannot change, but we remain on the sidelines with this debate until this manifests itself.”

Jonas is less positive than Wall Street on deliveries for the third quarter. He is forecasting 91,346.

Separately, Tesla is set to begin production at its Shanghai factory this month, according to a Reuters story citing “sources with knowledge of the matter.” The article didn’t say what level of output is expected from the plant.
