Tesla Inc.’s Model 3 won Edmunds.com’s best electric vehicle category, with the car shopping website and industry consultant saying that, for its price, no other electric vehicle “comes close to matching” its appeal. Edmunds said its editors selected the 2019 top vehicles based on “extensive” vehicle testing and from a group of finalists that included the highest-ranking vehicles within each category. The winners “represent the very best new vehicles on the road today,” Edmunds said on Wednesday. Related:Chevrolet brings back the Trailblazer, take a lookThe title of best sedan went to Honda Motor Co. Ltd.’s HMC, +1.09%  Accord, and best SUV to the Kia Motors Corp.’s 000270, +6.41%  Telluride. The top rated pickup truck was the Fiat Chrysler Automobiles’ FCAU, +0.40%  Ram 1500, while General Motors Co.’s GM, -0.43%  Chevrolet Corvette won best sports car. See also: Tesla unveils its Cybertruck: An angular electric pickup starting at $39,900While new vehicles tend to get attention, “newer doesn’t always equal better,” Alistair Weaver, editor in chief at Edmunds, said in a statement. Tesla’s TSLA, +4.86%  Model 3 and the Silicon Valley car maker’s luxury sedan offering, the Model S, regained key reliability recommendations from Consumer Reports last month. For the Model 3, there were fewer complaints about stuck latches or malfunctioning doors, and the Model S had fewer reported issues with paint and trim quality, Consumer Reports said then. Also last month, Tesla made waves when it unveiled its “Cybertruck,” an angular, futuristic pickup truck that boasted a starting price under $40,000. Tesla Chief Executive Elon Musk has said that Tesla has about 250,000 deposits for the Cybertruck, and analysts at Morgan Stanley recently said they expect that roughly 40% of those deposits would turn into sales. The analysts called that an “optimistic assumption” given that Cybertruck preorders require a $100 refundable deposit.Tesla shares have gained 7% this year, compared with gains of 25% and 19% for the S&P 500 SPX, +0.19%  and the Dow Jones Industrial Average. DJIA, +0.54%  