The U.S. stock market had lackluster third-quarter performance. Here’s how the broad indexes fared for those three months and the first three quarters of 2019, along with long-term returns:The financial media and many professional investors agree that we are at a late stage for the bull market that (arguably) started at the post-financial-crisis bottom on March 9, 2009.One sign of a frothy market is the seemingly new perception that assumptions about valuations for certain startup companies have been fantastic. The WeWork fiasco — leading to the ouster, sort of, of co-founder and CEO Adam Neumann — is a telling example. Another is Endeavor’s second failure this year to take itself public. Peloton US:PTON actually made it to market, but the shares started trading on Sept. 26 at $27, two dollars below its initial offering price.Then again, the world remains awash with cash as central banks in the developed world continue to be extraordinarily accommodative as they attempt to stave off possible recessions. Bonds with negative yields to maturity total more than $17 trillion, according to Bloomberg. That and the 1.74% yield for 10-year U.S. Treasury notes BX:TMUBMUSD10Y make the 1.98% dividend yield for the S&P 500 attractive.So we cannot predict when this bull market will end.Here’s how the 11 sectors of the S&P 500 have performed:With interest rates declining dramatically during the third quarter as the Federal Reserve reversed course, it may not be a surprise to see that the utilities sector (with its generally high dividend yields) performed best during the third quarter. But look at the 15-year returns — the utilities sector ranks third.On that note, here’s how all 30 components of the Dow Jones Industrial Average US:DJIA have performed this year and during the third quarter, along with some information about analysts’ opinions of the stocks. All total returns include reinvested dividends:You can click on the tickers for more about each company.The “new” Dow Inc. US:DOW has no year-to-date total return. The stock is down 1% (with reinvested dividends) since it began trading separately from the temporarily combined DowDuPont on March 20.Here are this year’s 10 best performers among the S&P 500 US:SPX :And here are the 10 worst performers among the S&P 500:Here are the best performing components of the S&P 400 Mid-Cap Index US:MID  this year:And the worst 10:Here are the 10 best-performing components of the S&P Small-Cap 600 Index US:SML  so far in 2019:And the 10 worst performers:Here are the 10 best performers this year among components of the Nasdaq-100 Index US:NDX :And the 10 worst performers:Don’t miss:These bank stocks could be crushed if the Fed keeps lowering interest ratesCreate an email alert for Philip van Doorn’s Deep Dive columns here.