In any market environment, there are exceptions to the trend. But there aren’t many this time.Since the S&P 500 US:SPX  hit its last closing record on Feb. 19, the index has skidded 12% — and only seven of the component stocks haven’t declined through the close on Feb. 27. See the list below.Before you get there, here’s a list of stocks in the index that took the worst beatings, along with a summary of how the 11 sectors performed. It might surprise you that Tesla US:TSLA  isn’t on that list of decliners, but the electric car maker hasn’t yet met the requirements to be included in the S&P 500. Before the outbreak of the coronavirus strain known as COVID-19, it appeared likely to be added to the index by the end of 2020. Tesla’s stock was down nearly $100 (13%) on Feb. 27 to close at $679. The stock was down $238 (26%) since it set a closing record of $917.42 on Feb. 19.Read:Tesla’s stock tumbles toward biggest-ever weekly dropSo here are the exceptions — seven S&P 500 stocks that rose in price between Feb. 19 and Feb. 27: You can click the tickers for more about each company.• Gilead Sciences US:GILD  has announced two Phase 3 clinical studies to measure the effectiveness of its Remdesivir medication in countering COVID-19 infections. The company’s Feb. 26 press release has more details. Jefferies analyst Michael Yee rates Gilead a “buy,” but wrote in a note to clients on Feb. 26 that although he is pleased that fighting the virus is a ‘very high priority” for Gilead’s management, “the financial implications are modest (pricing, one-time use, no tail).”• Regeneron Pharmaceuticals US:REGN  ws upgraded to a “Buy” by Jefferies analyst Biren Amin on Feb. 25, because he believes competitive risk to the company’s Eylea macular degeneration therapy has been minimized because of safety concerns over Novartis AG’s US:NVS   CH:NOVN  Beovu medication.• Clorox US:CLX  is an obvious defensive stock during a time when people are concerned about the spread of a deadly virus and reaching for bleach. But Charles Lemonides, founder of ValueWorks LLC in New York, argued that for long-term investors, Clorox’s high valuation to earnings actually makes it a risky stock.• E-Trade Financial US:ETFC  agreed on Feb. 20 to be acquired by Morgan Stanley US:MS  in an all-stock deal valued at $58.74 a share at that time. E-Trade’s shares closed at $45.95 Thursday. The deal calls for an exchange of 1.0432 Morgan Stanley shares for every E-Trade share. Morgan Stanley’s shares closed at $45.41 on Feb. 27, so based on those numbers, E-Trade’s takeout price would be $47.37.Create an email alert for Philip van Doorn’s Deep Dive columns here.