Tesla delivered excellent fourth-quarter results. Then again, its shares have doubled over the past year and more than tripled from their 52-week low on June 3. This gives rise to fear that the stock has become dangerous.But Jeff Reeves argues that Tesla TSLA, +4.45%may join the S&P 500SPX, +0.20%  by the end of the year by meeting S&P Dow Jones Indices’ financial criteria. This will be a very important event, because the company, with its tremendous market value, will then be a major component of index funds holding hundreds of billions of dollars in assets, including the SPDR S&P 500 ETF SPY, +0.21%. That will mean automatic support for the stock. More about Tesla: Therese Poletti writes that Tesla is finally delivering on Musk’s promises, which are only getting bigger.Here’s the expense wealthy people are most likely to have controlled on their way up.More about financial independence:I retired at 35 by following these principlesAnalysts at Bank of America have a trading strategy to follow as the viral outbreak continues to unfold. Meanwhile, Europe’s largest fund manager sees buying opportunities developing.What a lovely thought. Catey Hill helps a couple planning ahead, to find the perfect winter destination for their retirement budget.It might amaze you how high a percentage of customers refuse to take their cars dealers for service. Then gain, who wants to wait only line simply to drop off a car for repair? Sean Claessen explains how dealers can use technology to build lasting and profitable relationships with satisfied customers.Jacob Passy explains all the changes to FICO credit scores and what you can do to raise your own score to make it easier and cheaper to borrow money.FAANG stands for Facebook FB, -1.34%, Apple AAPL, -0.02%, Amazon.com AMZN, -0.21%, Netflix NFLX, -1.03% and Google holding company Alphabet GOOG, +0.23%   GOOGL, +0.06%, all of which focused on building new and better customer experience, rather than quarterly profits, as they grew quickly. Michael Brush believes McDonald’s MCD, +0.31%  is now being managed the same way as it makes heavy investments in new technology, which he expects to reward patient investors.Here are simple steps you or loved ones can take to make a difficult transition less painful.More on estate planning: The Moneyist looks at an estate mess.It took this Wisconsin couple more than three years — and even a lawsuit — to get their tax refund. We have all heard of hackers targeting bank accounts, but what about retirement accounts at brokerage companies? Alessandra Malito has tips on how to keep all of your accounts safe.Want more from MarketWatch? Check out our Personal Finance Daily or other newsletters, and get the latest news, personal finance and investing advice.