Tesla Inc. stock rallied Tuesday as some investors bet that the Silicon Valley car maker is better equipped than most companies to weather the broadside dealt by the coronavirus pandemic. Shares of Tesla TSLA, +4.26%  were poised to end at their highest in nearly six weeks and on a winning streak extended to a seventh trading day. The shares are up nearly 60% in that period, their best seven-day stretch since 2013. They were the top performer on the Nasdaq 100 on Tuesday. See also: Ford is first auto maker to warn of lower sales, but unlikely to be lastThe stock is down 21% from its all-time closing high of $917.42 on Feb. 19. The fuel for Tuesday’s rally came from an upgrade from analysts at Credit Suisse, who said Tesla had “more edge” in the transition to electric vehicles.The “coronavirus disruption will make it more difficult for legacy auto makers to balance the long-term shift to EV in the face of near-term cycle disruption,” the Credit Suisse analysts, led by Dan Levy, said. Despite the headwinds from the pandemic and near-term weakness to sales of electric vehicles, “the longer-term commitment to electrification will remain intact,” they said. They upgraded the stock to their equivalent of hold from sell and upped their price target to $580 from $415, implying a 21% downside to Tuesday's price. Tesla last week reported first-quarter deliveries that were higher than many analysts had expected, igniting the rally. The company has sought rent reductions for its service centers and stores amid the outbreak and has cut salaries and furloughed workers unable to work from home. Its main auto-making factory in Fremont, Calif., has been closed since late March. Related: Tesla sales a sign of relief for bullsIt the near term, however, Tesla may face risks including softer demand in the second quarter and possible supply shortages if the shutdown lasts until June. The analysts estimated that the Fremont shutdown is driving about $300 million a week in cash burn. Tesla earlier this month reported first-quarter deliveries that were very close or above several investment banks’ expectations. The company kept silent on its previous goal to sell more than half a million cars in 2020. The Credit Suisse analysts said they expect Tesla to sell about 400,000 vehicles this year, down form their previous expectation around 550,000. Tesla shares have gained 174% in the past 12 months, contrasting with losses around 3% for the S&P 500 index. SPX, +0.27%  