This has been a very rough week for U.S. investors, who had gotten used to a steady bull market. The S&P 500 has plunged 12% from its last closing high on Feb. 19 through Feb. 27, with most of the losses coming this week. The S&P’s SPX, +0.21% information technology sector has been the second-worst-performing sector after energy, skidding 15% during that time. The communications services sector, which includes technology and social media companies, such as Facebook FB, -1.56% and Alphabet GOOG, +0.19%   GOOGL, -0.00%, slumped 11.5%. But one of those stocks — Netflix NFLX, -1.10% — barely budged.Here’s a summary of how the sectors have performed during this downward spiral, along with a list of the worst 30 performers overall.Tesla TSLA, +4.35%  is another big decliner but isn’t included in the list because the company hasn’t yet met S&P Dow Jones Indices’ requirements to be included in the S&P 500. The electric car maker’s shares plummeted nearly $100, or 13%, on Feb. 27 to close at $679. The stock has collapsed 26%, or $238, since it set a closing record of $917.42 on Feb. 19.The flip side of all this carnage? Just seven S&P 500  stocks have risen in the six sessions through Feb. 27. The stock market on Friday is once again being battered, and Microsoft MSFT, -0.13% — the largest S&P 500 company by market capitalization — is in bear-market territory as of late morning, down 23%. Apple AAPL, +0.04% was briefly down more than 20%, the conventional definition of a bear market.. Here’s how the popular FAANG stocks — Facebook, Apple, Amazon.com AMZN, -0.14%, Netflix and Google holding company Alphabet — plus Microsoft — performed from Feb. 19 through Feb. 27.You can click the tickers for more about each company.So Netflix has been the glaring exception, with no obvious problems springing from the outbreak of the COVID-19 strain of coronavirus. Only two of the companies have commented on the impact coronavirus could have on its business. Apple doesn’t expect to meet its second-quarter estimates, because final assembly of iPhones takes place at factories in China operated by Foxconn Technology FXCOF, .  Read:Apple’s coronavirus warning wasn’t a total surprise, but magnitude rattles Wall StreetMicrosoft warned that it didn’t expect to hit financial targets for its third fiscal quarter because “the supply chain is returning to normal operations at a slower pace than anticipated.”Leaving the companies in the same order, here’s a summary of analysts’ ratings and price targets as of the close on Feb. 27. Be cautious: It is possible that a significant number of analysts haven’t yet updated the financial assumptions that support their price targets (and therefore their ratings), in light of the quick flow of information related to the virus outbreak and supply-chain difficulties. So as always, do your own research if you see anything interesting.Despite the continued majority “buy” ratings for Netflix, the stock also has the highest percentage of “sell” ratings among the group, and the analysts as a whole believe the stock is now fairly valued.Don’t miss:These are the only 7 stocks in the S&P 500 that rose while the market plungedCreate an email alert for Philip van Doorn’s Deep Dive columns here.