MarketWatch’s Catey Hill does it again — she continues to help people find ideal retirement spots for their specific needs and budgets. This time the trick is to locate a beach town for a retiree with modest income. Yes, it can be done.Shares of Tesla TSLA, +4.51% rose 56% during January. Then the stock popped another 20% on Feb. 3, climbed 14% on Feb. 4 and dropped 17% on Feb. 5, before a rather mellow Feb. 6, when it rose 2%. Tomi Kilgore explains the technical trading patterns.More on Tesla’s stock gyrations:• Here’s what investors may be overlooking about Tesla• Tesla’s biggest bull stampedes to a $7,000 price target• This is how Tesla ranks compared with other popular technology stocksYour family may need to make some estate-planning changes, in light of the Secure Act’s change to how IRA beneficiaries are taxed.Heading into Valentine’s Day: A spousal IRA may be the best gift you can give your non-working husband or wife.Some companies face difficult transitions, while others are poised to grow, as the world turns to biofriendly packaging and cleans up its plastic-polluting mess.Quentin Fottrell, MarketWatch’s Moneyist, helps a woman whose late father left his entire state to her son — his grandson. She is having difficulty with expenses and there is a further complication. MarketWatch readers have gotten involved, making over 150 comments. You can join the conversation.Michael Brush expects central-bank action to drive demand for this group of companies. Another list: Looking for another Apple or Amazon? These stocks have one important thing in common with tech’s big winners.U.S. stocks have been riding a momentum wave for years. The Federal Reserve’s interest-rate cuts last year helped push the S&P 500 Index SPX, +0.16%  up 31.5% (with dividends reinvested). But now a billionaire investor, who only a month ago said he was enjoying riding the wave, has changed his tune.Another warning: Stocks headed for a 67% downturn? Seems ‘preposterous’ now, but it did in 2000 and 2007, too, says fund manager.Alessandra Malito explains the need to focus on investment income potential, rather than the size of the nest egg.Jacob Passy looks at new data showing how rental cost is becoming more of a burden, even for the middle class.Here’s why the next recession may not cause housing prices to drop.Meghan Markle is in the midst of a career transition, as she and Prince Harry decided in January to give up their royal titles. Here’s Markle’s first job after the couple’s move to Canada.