Tesla has its doubters, but the stock has come roaring back, making believers out of many.Tesla TSLA, +4.21%, under the leadership of Elon Musk, has often disappointed investors by missing deadlines or failing to hit production targets. But in 2019, the company delivered about 367,500 cars, up 50% from a year earlier, and its stock ended the year with a 26% gain, despite a massive drop earlier in the year. The shares were up another 23% for 2020 through Jan. 16.Here’s a two-year chart for the stock:Jeff Reeves lists five things Tesla bears keep getting wrong about the stock.When a new technology is going through a long-term implementation phase, investors can get ahead of themselves and lose a lot of money if they fall for hyped-up pitches.Nigam Arora explains how timing is critically important — even for 5G stocks he favors, including Apple AAPL, -0.06%.Jacob Passy explains why a high credit score isn’t all it’s cracked up to be.Equity investors are confident following a 31.5% return for the S&P 500 SPX, +0.19%  last year and more gains so far in 2020. Bullish sentiment has hit a two-year high by more than one measure, which is a pullback warning for professional investors, as Chris Matthews explains. Related:Why this quarter could be crucial for stocks and the economyCatey Hill continues her retirement-destination series by interviewing an American biker who has spent more time in Mazatlan, Mexico, than anywhere else.Here’s a list by state of how much money you will need to afford retirement, assuming you will also be receiving Social Security payments.While you are working toward your target, avoid these 12 deadly investing sins.The stock market is often volatile, and even a long-term bull market features significant pullbacks. Here’s how to prepare for what is almost guaranteed to happen.Keith Jurow sees numerous warning signs in the U.S. jumbo mortgage market, and MarketWatch readers reacted with over 150 comments. Join the conversation.Want more from MarketWatch? Check out our Personal Finance Daily or other newsletters, and get the latest news, personal finance and investing advice.